International Journal of Hospitality Management 133 (2026) 104397
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
International Journal of Hospitality Management
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ijhm
Aspect-based sentiment analysis through zero-shot text classification and
impact-asymmetry analysis
Wooseok Kwon
College of Hospitality and Tourism Management, Sejong University, 209 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05006, South Korea
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: This study proposes innovative methods integrating aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) using zero-shot text
Aspect-based sentiment analysis classification (ZSTC) into the impact-asymmetry analysis. Although ABSA is essential to enrich a thorough un-
Zero-shot learning derstanding of customer behavior, applying it to hospitality and tourism management is challenging because
Large language model
matching sentiment valence with an aspect category is complicated, and annotated datasets are scarce. The ZSTC
Kano model
suggested by this study leverages pre-trained large language models and addresses these challenges in hospitality
Impact-asymmetry analysis
and tourism management contexts. Furthermore, impact-asymmetry analysis based on the Kano model in-
User-generated content
vestigates the asymmetric relationships between the identified aspects and customer satisfaction. It classifies
them into satisfiers, dissatisfiers, or hybrids and prioritizes them to support managerial decision-making. A case
study analyzing TripAdvisor reviews during the COVID-19 pandemic is provided to demonstrate the usefulness of
the proposed methodology. This study’s findings offer theoretical and practical contributions to the academic
and business sectors.
1. Introduction sentiment will not be of much help. Even if they are aware of the factors
of interest, without insights into customer perceptions of each factor,
Digitalized textual data has proliferated with the advent of the they would be uncertain about where to prioritize their efforts. In this
internet. Companies analyze user-generated content on social media or regard, certain online review sites, such as TripAdvisor, present star
online review sites as a new source of understanding the perceptions and ratings for pre-defined aspects. However, these aspects are constrained,
attitudes of customers (Dwivedi et al., 2021). Fast-growing natural and the ratings provided by reviewers are often sparse (Luo and Tang,
language processing (NLP) skills have facilitated this work. Among NLP 2019).
tasks, sentiment analysis (SA), or opinion mining, is widely used in this Hence, aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) has continuously
kind of analysis. SA has advantages over conventional star ratings given attracted researchers’ interest. ABSA is a fine-grained model of SA that
along with online reviews. As a tool for understanding customer provides sentiment information regarding specific features of products
behavior, star ratings are often biased, failing to reflect the complexity of and services considered as an aspect (Schouten et al., 2018; Tubishat
customers’ experiential perceptions and emotions on products or ser- et al., 2018). By shifting the focus from an entire document to specific
vices (Al-Natour and Turetken, 2020). As noted by Gaspar et al. (2016), aspects, ABSA captures segmented sentiments depending on the various
not only positive but also negative emotions can be expressed in a re- aspects of products or services (Zhang et al., 2023). In the context of
view, though a rating is high. As such, star ratings alone restrict a deeper hospitality and tourism, online reviews provide enriched information on
understanding of customers’ minds. customers’ perceptions and attitudes regarding their experiences.
SA can be conducted at a review, sentence, or aspect level (Yadav However, hospitality services present unique analytical challenges due
and Roychoudhury, 2019). Despite its usefulness for managerial to their multidimensional nature. ABSA specifically addresses these
decision-making, an aggregated sentiment value that presents a single challenges by enabling the exploration of relationships between
representative sentiment at a review level has limitations in enhancing different service aspects, which can theoretically contribute to hospi-
the understanding of customer behavior because it does not contain rich tality management research. This approach allows hospitality managers
and compound information. Moreover, if managers want to know what to gain a more nuanced understanding of customer evaluations of
and how much they need to improve in customer service, the aggregated diverse factors and make prioritized improvement decisions based on
E-mail address: wkwon@sejong.ac.kr.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2025.104397
Received 30 November 2024; Received in revised form 16 June 2025; Accepted 19 July 2025
Available online 5 September 2025
0278-4319/© 2025 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
their relative impact on satisfaction. machine learning, or deep learning-based approach. The
However, whereas discussion about ABSA led by computational dictionary-based approach employs a pre-defined dictionary or lexicon,
linguistics has mainly focused on enhancing the accuracy of sentiment such as SentiWordNet (Baccianella et al., 2010), with a pair of words and
classification, few studies have explored the adaptation of ABSA to a sentiment scores. Machine learning and deep learning-based approaches
hospitality and tourism management context. Indeed, ABSA focused on generally use annotated data and establish a classifier through super-
the methodology itself is less helpful in uncovering why and how vised learning, which can then be used to assess the sentiment of a given
problems latent in sentiments based on aspects (Kar and Dwivedi, 2020). document (Jeong et al., 2019).
Moreover, ABSA requires a large volume of pre-annotated datasets since Recently, attention to ABSA has grown because customers’ affection
it has been considered a classification problem in machine learning. for a product or a service is often based on a specific feature rather than
Regarding the dataset with annotated labels of aspects, studies have an overall assessment (Venugopalan and Gupta, 2022). The aspect ele-
relied on the limited availability of the aspect-sentiment-labeled dataset, ments consist of an aspect term and an aspect category (Zhang et al.,
such as SemEval-2016 (Pontiki et al., 2016), mainly in the laptop or 2023). While capturing aspect terms in the text is straightforward, they
restaurant domain. It becomes problematic when researchers or man- are often too intricate and detailed for direct use. In contrast, the aspect
agers apply ABSA to other domains where the labeled dataset does not category, being more concise, topical, thematic, and perceptual, is more
exist. For instance, new phenomena such as COVID-19 that do not have advantageous for exploring ABSA problems. Consequently, identifying
labeled samples, where the annotation is laborious and challenging aspect categories derived from explicit aspect terms becomes critical for
(Pourpanah et al., 2023), cannot be investigated by this approach. fulfilling the goals of ABSA. For instance, given the sentence “The room
Therefore, this study attempts to bridge a critical research gap by with a sofa bed came with no pillows.,” determining “room amenities”
advancing ABSA and combining it with a theoretical framework in the from the fine-grained aspect terms, such as “sofa bed” and “pillow” as an
hospitality management. Unlike computational research that has pri- aspect of this sentence is demanding but more effective. As noted, one of
marily focused on technical accuracy improvements, this work ad- the critical issues of the ABSA is that annotated data is limited, which
dresses the specific challenges faced by hospitality researchers and means there is the least standard foundation to which the identification
practitioners: the need to analyze customer sentiment without extensive of aspects refers.
labeled datasets, and the requirement to transform this analysis into In the unsupervised learning approach, this issue is not problematic
actionable service improvement priorities. It specifically addresses the because it does not need annotated data for label reference. Instead,
following research questions. categories are determined from text. For instance, topics generated by
topic modeling techniques, such as LDA, can be treated as aspects of
• RQ1. How can aspect-based sentiment polarities be effectively reviews. Then, keywords aligned with each topic are used to assess
detected from online reviews in the hospitality and tourism field different aspects present in the text when they match the words used.
“when annotated data are limited”? Luo and Tang (2019)followed this approach and evaluated sentiment
• RQ2. How can aspect categories and sentiment valence be utilized polarity by linking terms with external sentiment lexicons. The disad-
more effectively for further quantitative analysis? vantages of this approach lie in the fact that aspects are constrained to
topics generated by LDA, which hinders conducting SA based on a more
For the RQ2, this study induces the Kano model (Kano et al., 1984) comprehensive range of aspects. Moreover, this approach is unavailable
that notes the different features of products have asymmetric effects on for a small number of reviews due to the limitation of the LDA technique.
customer satisfaction. It proposes three categories classifying those On the other hand, Yadav and Roychoudhury (2019) and Hu et al.
features: attractive, must-be, and one-dimensional quality features (2021) captured the nouns that most frequently occur, using POS
(Bigorra et al., 2019). Attractive features are related to excitement by tagging, and treated them as aspects. In this case, the aspects become
fulfilling expectations, must-be features are related to mere customer granular, and another process for applying those aspect terms to aspect
dissatisfaction by not fulfilling expectations, and one-dimensional fea- categories is necessary.
tures can be related to both. The Kano model enables a more in-depth The supervised learning approach assumes that annotated data with
perspective on the complex relationships between the outcomes of labels are available. This classification requires a training process with a
ABSA and customer satisfaction, which contributes to a better under- well-annotated dataset, which is an obstacle to ABSA. For instance, Li
standing of customer behavior as well as decision-making. et al. (2023)employed BERT to perform ABSA in a restaurant context.
Maintaining this perspective, this study proposes a framework Although BERT is generally more reliable than the previous
encompassing ABSA using zero-shot learning and an asymmetric anal- lexicon-based methods, it is designed for fine-tuned tasks and requires a
ysis of the aspect categories toward satisfaction. Zero-shot learning sufficient size of labeled datasets to perform effectively (Widmann and
classifies instances into labels that have not been trained previously, Wich, 2023). At least, despite being pre-trained, BERT cannot be applied
which has the potential for classification tasks in NLP (Yin et al., 2019). to other contexts or used to investigate certain new aspects arising from
In this study, a novel approach identifies the aspect category and the novel research questions.
sentiment valence without the term-category pair or any annotated
label. Furthermore, compared to the conventional linear relationship 2.2. Zero-shot text classification (ZSTC) based on natural language
analysis, asymmetric analysis unveils dynamic relationships of identi- inference
fied aspects toward satisfaction. Details are explained in the proposed
methodology section, and a case study adapts the proposed framework Zero-shot learning originated from computer vision to classify new
to online hotel reviews under the COVID-19 pandemic in which labeled images into classes that are not trained (Lampert et al., 2014). Later, it
samples are rare. has been increasingly used in NLP tasks, such as language translation,
entity extraction, classification of new semantic classes, and relation
2. Related work extraction (Wang et al., 2019). Zero-shot text classification (ZSTC) refers
to classifying text into candidate classes using zero-shot learning to
2.1. Research on the aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) predict labels that are not included in the training set. Whereas common
machine learning or deep learning struggles with a shortage of training
Sentiment analysis (SA) refers to evaluating the emotional tone in samples, ZSTC can deal with emerging classes that have not appeared in
written text to comprehend the affective states expressed in the content previous datasets (Chen et al., 2021). ZSTC can classify multiple aspects
(Raman et al., 2022). Generally, SA identifies the sentiment polarity in that may be contained even within a single sentence. For example, Yin
the text at a document, sentence, or aspect level, using a dictionary, et al. (2019) identified ‘topic,’ ‘emotion,’ and ‘situation’ aspects,
2
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
respectively, included in one sentence. conventional Kano model, which relies on customer survey data, recent
Early ZSTC attempted to train a large corpus of sentences using a studies (e.g., Bi et al., 2020; Bigorra et al., 2019) actively take advantage
single neural network and transfer a developed model into a new dataset of online textual reviews to capture product features aligned with
to predict unseen classes (Pushp and Srivastava, 2018). However, the customer satisfaction.
recent development of pre-trained large language models (LLMs) has Meanwhile, the Kano model has been extended by integrating
substantially improved the performance of ABSA problems by not only various impact-asymmetry (IA) analysis methods. For instance, penalty-
introducing enhanced embeddings but also providing feasible solutions reward contrast analysis (Brandt, 1987) has been employed in exam-
for diverse downstream ABSA tasks (Zhang et al., 2023). While LLMs are ining the nonlinear impact of aspects on overall satisfaction (Mikuli´c and
pre-trained language models that can be used in many different types of Prebeˇzac, 2008). The penalty-reward contrast analysis uses a multiple
downstream tasks, they are generally fine-tuned for the tasks. Accord- regression equation, where overall satisfaction plays a role as a depen-
ingly, gaps exist between pre-trained and fine-tuned models from the dent variable, using penalty or reward factors of features as independent
transfer learning perspectives (Han et al., 2022). Moreover, in the ZSTC variables. This approach identifies the non-linearity of aspects by dis-
problem, transferring knowledge from seen to unseen classes can be tinguishing penalty factors from negative factors and can categorize
challenging because shared patterns or characteristics between these aspects among the features in the Kano model (Picolo and Tontini,
classes are scarce (Ye et al., 2020). Hence, a semantic tool should help 2018). However, the generic penalty-reward contrast analysis does not
bridge pre-trained knowledge and classified categories to improve the reveal the prioritized significance of those aspects.
classification quality beyond generalization. Additionally, the method of importance-performance analysis
Among many attempts to mitigate the gaps, prompt-based ap- (Martilla and James, 1977), which was developed as a distinctive
proaches in using LLMs have recently attracted attention. This approach analytical approach, is frequently combined with the Kano model (Hu
originated from the task of natural language inference (NLI) (Dagan et al., 2022; Picolo and Tontini, 2018). For example, the different im-
et al., 2006) that aims to predict the relationship between two sentences, portances of aspects were measured by the coefficients of aspects in the
such as entailment, contradiction, or neutral (Sainz and Rigau, 2021). regression equation (Bi et al., 2020; Xiao, 2021). This combination aids
For example, ZSTC can be improved by providing appropriate prompts in closely examining the priorities of various aspects to enhance,
using a next-sentence prediction model (Zhao et al., 2022). With the considering their asymmetric effects on overall satisfaction. It is worth
advancement of LLMs, prompt engineering-based approaches have been noting that three factors in the Kano model have varied in their names,
continuously progressing. Despite significant progress in ZSTC in depending on the different perspectives, though the core concept re-
computational linguistics, including developments in prompt engineer- mains consistent. For example, attractive, one-dimensional, must-be
ing, the field of hospitality and tourism management still lags behind in features in the Kano model are called excitement, performance, and
incorporating this technology into its research. basic factors, respectively in Bi et al. (2020), while delighters, satisfiers,
Moreover, it is crucial to distinguish LLMs used for ZSTC approaches hybrids, dissatisfiers, and frustrators were referred to from the
from recent generative LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT). Most generative LLMs are perspective of customer satisfaction (Lee et al., 2020).
fundamentally designed for text generation through autoregressive ar-
chitectures optimized for next-token prediction (Brown et al., 2020). In 3. Proposed methodology
contrast, ZSTC methodology requires NLI capabilities that evaluate
entailment relationships between premises and hypotheses—a struc- Based on reviewing the literature and finding the limitations of the
tured logical reasoning task distinct from text generation (Yin et al., present ABSA research mentioned above, this study offers a methodol-
2019). NLI-based models are specifically trained to compute entailment ogy incorporating ABSA using ZSTC into Kano-model-based IA analysis.
probabilities for systematic classification. They produce deterministic Fig. 1describes the entire process of the analysis conducted in this study.
outputs essential for reproducible academic research, which generative
models cannot guarantee due to their stochastic nature.
3.1. Data preparation
2.3. KANO model and impact-asymmetry (IA) analysis
During the web scraping process, because it is impractical to selec-
Recent works have criticized the assumption that various customer tively harvest user-generated content of specific interest from social
factors have linear relationships with customer satisfaction (Bi et al., media sites, researchers typically gather a broad range of reviews
2019). Particularly, Kano et al. (1984) extend Herzberg’s (1968) initially. This study applied Word2vec (Mikolov et al., 2013) to identify
two-factor theory and propose a model consisting of three factors particularly focused reviews for a case study, as described later in the
impacting customer satisfaction differently, such as attractive, case study section.
one-dimensional, and must-be quality features. Attractive quality fea- In conventional NLP research, texts are normally broken into se-
tures relate to delight or excitement to customers. When they are absent mantic unit elements. However, this task (so-called tokenization) is not
or not fulfilled, it does not lead to customer dissatisfaction because necessary in the proposed methods because ZSTC using pre-trained
customers do not have high expectations of them. However, if they are LLMs works on a contextual basis and does not need any further fine-
well offered to customers, it greatly impacts positive customer satis- tuning. Likewise, the proposed model does not require text pre-
faction. One-dimensional quality features refer to features with a con- processing, such as lowercasing, removing stop words, and stemming
ventional linear relation with customer satisfaction. When they are or lemmatization, leaving text as it is. Instead, constructing auxiliary
absent or not fulfilled as expected, customers will be dissatisfied, but if sentences is recommended to increase the clarity of each sentence
they are fulfilled, customers will be satisfied. On the contrary, must-be containing pronouns (Murtadha et al., 2022). Dealing with the sentence,
quality features do not influence customer satisfaction, even though the demonstrative pronoun can be replaced by named entities (Chauhan
they are performed well. However, their poor performance leads to et al., 2022). By doing so, aspects and sentiments implied in each sen-
customer dissatisfaction. tence can be revealed in the context. For instance, sentences, “My sister
This perspective, despite adjustment and variation, has been applied lives in Houston. She is quite happy in that city.” are modified to “My sister
to various works, such as quality function development (Liu et al., lives in Houston. My sister is quite happy in Houston.” using the ‘Neu-
2022), attribute performance in hotel services (Bi et al., 2020), selecting ralCoref’ and ‘spaCy’ libraries in Python. After the auxiliary sentences
improvement options for multichannel retailers (Baier and Rese, 2020), are constructed, each sentence is split and kept separately to obtain
or security perceptions on smartphones (Xiao, 2021). Unlike the ABSA polarities based on the sentence.
3
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
Fig. 1. The proposed methodology.
3.2. Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) using zero-shot text “The sentiment of this sentence is {}.”, is used, which is called “prompt
classification (ZSTC) decomposition” (Liu et al., 2023). As a result, each sentence generates an
‘aspect’ and ‘sentiment’ pair based on the prediction probability.
Annotated data are largely unavailable in most domains. Pre-trained Among various LLMs for ZSTC exist, this study selected the three
zero-shot learning LLMs available on the Hugging Face platform (http most reliable LLMs on the Hugging Face platform: BART (Lewis et al.,
s://huggingface.co/) can assign labels to unannotated text using any 2020), DeBERTa (He et al., 2021), and RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019). BART
user-defined categories, which can be applied for aspect categorization, has auto-regressive decoders and is designed to detect fine-grained as-
emotion detection, relation extraction, and more kinds of classification pects from untrained and unlabeled datasets. Both DeBERTa (Deco-
problems (Yin et al., 2019). As ABSA has two distinctive classification ding-enhanced BERT with Disentangled Attention) and RoBERTa (A
problems (i.e., aspect classification and sentiment classification), re- Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach) are enhanced versions
searchers can design different candidate sets of classes for an aspect and of BERT, benefiting from training larger and more diverse datasets and
a sentiment, respectively. Then, ZSTC is conducted with an optimized training methods and parameters. These three models are
instruction-tuned pipeline consisting of hypothesis and candidate op- known for their ability to predict unseen classes effectively. However,
tions to improve performance based on the NLI task (Wei et al., 2022). BERT was not used in this study because its architecture is based on
Specifically, the study takes advantage of a textual entailment approach fine-tuning with pre-annotated datasets and underperforms in the NLI
in which a hypothesis is formulated by entailing the aspect class or task. Then, an ensemble method based on majority voting was used to
sentiment valence in a template based on the assumption that a sentence obtain better outcomes, where the class that acquires two or more votes
serves as a premise (Gera et al., 2022). is chosen.
Suppose that given a review consisting of a sequence of sentences S
={s1 , s2 , …, sn }and a list of candidate aspects A ={a1 ,a2 ,…,an }, the
model is required to label each pair {(s,a): (s∈S,a∈A)}. In other 3.3. impact-asymmetry (IA) analysis
words, given any s as a premise, a hypothesis is developed from a
template incorporating candidate classes. This hypothesis is given as a It is essential to exercise caution in using the predicted probability of
form of a cloze prompt, such as “The subject of this sentence is {}” so a class as a direct indicator of the feature’s degree because the proba-
that the potential classes with a probability distribution for the empty bilities of candidate classes compete to be summed into one (Holtzman
field can be predicted based on the pre-trained LLMs. To address two et al., 2022). Thus, this study uses the frequency of sentiment corre-
classification problems corresponding to each sentence, it is better to use sponding with the aspect identified within the sentences of reviews. The
different sub-prompts than one prompt holding two hypotheses because counted frequency is assumed to be the sentimental intensity of each
predicting different types of classes at the same time is challenging (Liu aspect in reviews. Next, the study adopts a penalty-reward contrast
et al., 2023). Accordingly, as shown in Table 1, a separate sub-prompt, approach in which positive and negative performances of each aspect
toward overall satisfaction are separately considered to analyze the
asymmetric effects of aspects (Mikuli´c and Prebeˇzac, 2011). Hence, the
Table 1 negative sentiment associated with each aspect acts as a penalty, while
The example of textual entailment for aspect classification.
the positive sentiment functions as a reward. Then, the penalty and
Premise (sentence) Task Hypothesis reward scores are obtained by coefficients derived from multivariate
Template The most- regression analysis, shown in the equation below.
likely class ∑A (cid:0) )
“My room was one of the Aspect The subject of facilitates Satisfaction= β 0 + β 1a χ pa +β 2a χ na +CV+e ,
‘Wellness’ rooms and classification this sentence is a=1
offered some great {}.
features such as an air Sentiment The sentiment positive where β is the constant, and given that an aspect a∈A, χ and χ are
0 pa na
purifier and water quality classification of this sentence the positive and negative sentiments of the aspect a,respectively, β
and a serene setting.” is {}. and β are the coefficients associated with those sentiments of th 1 e a
2a
4
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
aspect a, CV is a control variable, and e is an error. Satisfaction is content regarding COVID-19. Orlando possesses the most significant
measured by user ratings. number of hotels. However, Las Vegas stands out as having many re-
Based on Bi et al. (2020), using the penalty and reward scores, the views per hotel, both for all and COVID-19-related reviews. It suggests
following equation calculates the IA score for each aspect. that the city’s hotels are popular, and visitors are more inclined to leave
reviews. Houston, while having a significant number of hotels, has a low
|β |(cid:0) |β |
IAa =
|β
1a
|+|β
2a
|
average of reviews per hotel and a low average of COVID-19 reviews per
1a 2a hotel. Washington DC has the highest ratio of COVID-19-related reviews
The IA score should range from (cid:0) 1 to 1 based on the formula above. (10.7%), indicating that a larger portion of its hotel reviews are related
When the score is close to 1, the aspect is considered a perfect satisfier, to COVID-19 concerns or experiences than any other city. Surprisingly,
indicating that satisfaction only exists when the performance of this New York has the lowest number of hotels with COVID-19 reviews and
aspect meets expectations. When the score approaches (cid:0) 1, the aspect is the lowest ratio of COVID-19 reviews (3.7%) despite being a major city.
identified as a perfect dissatisfier. It suggests that dissatisfaction occurs
solely when the performance of this aspect fails to meet expectations.
4.2. Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) using zero-shot text
The thresholds for the IA score follow the suggestions of Lee et al.
classification (ZSTC)
(2020). Specifically, if IAa >0.8, the aspect is classified as a delighter (an
extreme satisfier); if 0.2 <IAa ≤0.8, the aspect is classified as a sat-
Since the proposed method in this study addresses the ABSA at the
isfier; if (cid:0) 0.2 <IAa ≤0.2, the aspect is classified as a hybrid; if (cid:0)
sentence level, it is necessary to split a review into individual sentences.
0.8 <IAa ≤0.2, the aspect is classified as a dissatisfier; if IAa <(cid:0) 0.8,
However, the creation of auxiliary sentences should be done before this
the aspect is classified as a frustrator (an extreme dissatisfier).
splitting process to ensure that the referred named entities are not lost.
Following this procedure, from a total of 4080 reviews, 45,295 senten-
4. Case study
ces, each completed with auxiliary sentence construction, were
identified.
4.1. Data preparation
Given that no pre-defined labels exist in ZSTC, this study carefully
selected hospitality-specific aspect categories based on Lai and Hitchcock
Since the study conducts customers’ ABSA using ZSTC methods, it
(2016)dimensions of satisfaction sources in hotel service. The 11 candidate
selected online reviews in the context of COVID-19 as a case study
aspects (facilities, staff, location, food, price, cleanliness, design features,
source because they may contain previously unseen events. A custom-
technologies, entertainment, safety, and general) were specifically chosen to
ized web scraping program built on Python (version 3.9) was used to
collect reviews on TripAdvisor, one of the largest social media platforms
Table 3
where individuals share their service experiences. Data collection was
The result of robust regression analysis and impact-asymmetry analysis.
slowly processed for four months, from July 2020 to October 2020, to
avoid straining the web server. The web scraper initially gathered the Variable Estimate Aspect IA score Factor
names of hotels from the eight leading cities. These cities were chosen facilities_pos 1.409*** (0.122) Facilities (cid:0) 0.268 dissatisfiers
according to the number of hotels they have, as reported by Statista (htt facilities_neg (cid:0) 2.442*** (0.110) ​ ​ ​
staff_pos 2.142*** (0.146) Staff (cid:0) 0.147 hybrids
ps://www.statista.com/statistics/459791/number-hotel-rooms-us-citi
staff_neg (cid:0) 2.881*** (0.200) ​ ​ ​
es/). Following this, the scraper collected reviews for each of these ho- location_pos 1.423*** (0.137) Location (cid:0) 0.116 hybrids
tels, and ‘hotel name,’ ‘address,’ ‘reviewer id,’ ‘reviewer location,’ location_neg (cid:0) 1.797*** (0.163) ​ ​ ​
‘rating,’ ‘review title,’ and ‘review text’ items were captured and stored food_pos 0.430* (0.197) Food (cid:0) 0.319 dissatisfiers
in the database system. food_neg (cid:0) 0.833*** (0.242) ​ ​ ​
price_pos 1.386*** (0.359) Price (cid:0) 0.345 dissatisfiers
Since the burst of COVID-19 was first reported in December 2019, price_neg (cid:0) 2.846*** (0.211) ​ ​ ​
reviews posted after January 2020 were only considered. Among them, cleanliness_pos 2.414*** (0.266) Cleanliness (cid:0) 0.076 hybrids
of particular interest are reviews explicitly mentioning the primary cleanliness_neg (cid:0) 2.810*** (0.305) ​ ​ ​
term, ‘COVID-19.’ Additionally, a word embedding technique (i.e., design_pos 1.200*** (0.242) Design 0.878 delighters
design_neg (cid:0) 0.078(0.516) ​ ​ ​
Word2vec) was used to identify seed words semantically related to
technologies_pos (cid:0) 0.226(0.883) Technologies (cid:0) 0.737 dissatisfiers
‘COVID-19’ based on the cosine similarity score. Finally, reviews con- technologies_neg (cid:0) 1.495* (0.804) ​ ​ ​
taining those seed words (i.e., ‘covid,’ ‘coronavirus,’ ‘virus,’ ‘pandemic,’ entertainment_pos 0.793*** (0.304) Entertainment (cid:0) 0.302 dissatisfiers
‘epidemic,’ ‘ncov,’ ‘quarantine,’ or ‘lockdown’) were selected for the entertainment_neg (cid:0) 1.481** (0.617) ​ ​ ​
analysis. A descriptive result of reviews used in this case study is shown safety_pos 2.470*** (0.284) Safety 0.444 satisfiers
safety_neg (cid:0) 0.952*** (0.268) ​ ​ ​
in Table 2.
During the period, 52,707 reviews from 1819 hotels were initially Notes: N=4080; *p<0.1; **p<0.05; ***p<0.01; The number of sentences is
collected, and 4080 reviews from 991 hotels were considered to hold a control variable; IA score =Impact-asymmetry score.
Table 2
The descriptive summary of the focal data.
Location All reviews COVID-19 related reviews
No of hotels No of reviews (1) Review per hotel No of hotels No of reviews (2) Review per hotel Ratio
(2) / (1)
Orlando 327 11200 34.3 226 966 4.3 8.6%
LA 320 4693 14.7 138 456 3.3 9.7%
Houston 320 3162 9.9 115 210 1.8 6.6%
Las Vegas 201 16170 80.4 132 1190 9.0 7.4%
New York 181 6424 35.5 84 236 2.8 3.7%
Chicago 171 4394 25.7 114 350 3.1 8.0%
Dallas 151 2674 17.7 84 246 2.9 9.2%
Washington DC 148 3990 27.0 98 426 4.3 10.7%
Total 1819 52707 29.0 991 4080 4.1 7.7%
5
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
capture the key dimensions of hotel experiences. As described in Table 3, a 4.3. impact-asymmetry (IA) analysis
hypothesis template using three LLMs (i.e., BART, DeBERTa, and RoBERTa)
predicted the most-likely class of an aspect with distributed probabilities. To In this study’s multivariate regression analysis, a breach of multi-
maximize the accuracy, this study used models having a large size of pa- variate normality (HZ statistic = 21.42, p<.001) was observed, as
rameters, that is, ‘facebook/bart-large-mnli’ for BART, ‘MoritzLaur- indicated by the Henze–Zirkler (HZ) test (Henze and Zirkler, 1990).
er/DeBERTa-v3-large-mnli-fever-anli-ling-wanli’ for DeBERTa, and Moreover, the studentized Breusch–Pagan test (Koenker, 1981) showed
‘roberta-large-mnli’ for RoBERTa, respectively on the Hugging Face plat- heteroscedasticity in the OLS regression model (BP statistic (4080, 21)
form. All these ZSTC procedures were conducted using PyTorch v2.0 (htt =453.19, p<.001). To address the violation of these assumptions, this
ps://pytorch.org/). Then, the predicted class that received the majority study conducted a robust regression analysis (Huber and Ronchetti,
vote from the three LLMs was designated as the final class. In case all three 2009). As displayed in Table 3, the results show that all variables are
models predicted different classes, one with the highest probability score statistically significant except for ‘design_neg’ and ‘technology_pos.’
was selected. Regarding the classification of sentiment valence, one of three Further, this study calculated the IA scores of aspects using the formula
sentiment labels (i.e., positive, negative, and neutral) was allocated for each described above. Based on the established criteria, five aspects (e.g.,
sentence in the same way as the majority voting of aspect classification. facilities, food, price, technologies, and entertainment) were categorized
In the subsequent step, as demonstrated in Fig. 2, this study con- as dissatisfiers, three aspects (e.g., staff, location, and cleanliness) were
verted the aspect-sentiment pair set of each sentence into quantitative identified as hybrids, and design and safety were classified as delighters
values at the review level based on their frequency of occurrence. Since and satisfiers, respectively.
each sentence within a review contains a unique aspect-sentiment pair Then, the study designed the impact level-asymmetry map, as shown
set and a review is composed of multiple sentences, the study restruc- in Fig. 4. This approach facilitates the identification of more or less
tured the sentence records into a wide format, including the aspect- relevant aspects of customer satisfaction and improvement priorities
sentiment pairs as independent variables. The count of each pair set (Mikuli´c and Prebeˇzac, 2008). For instance, ‘technologies’ is a dissat-
was tallied whenever it appeared, augmenting the corresponding vari- isfier that must be adequately provided to prevent dissatisfaction.
able’s value and thereby intensifying the sentiment. Through this pro- However, its strength of impact on customer satisfaction is feeble. In
cess, the study quantified the overall sentiment intensity for all aspects contrast, ‘facilities’ is also dissatisfier, but given its medium impact, it
within a review. should have higher priority. Delighters and satisfiers are positioned on
This study generated a correlation map to ensure that LLMs judge the upper side, and ‘design’ and ‘safety’ fall into this category, respec-
aspects’ sentimental polarities appropriately. As shown in Fig. 3, all the tively. They currently exceed customer expectations but have a low or
variables of positive sentiments are positively related to ratings (colored moderate impact, implying a good performance but less necessity for
in blue). In contrast, all the variables of negative sentiments are nega- immediate improvement than other aspects. For hybrids, all the aspects
tively related to ratings (colored in red), which supports an assumption have medium to high impact levels with moderate asymmetry,
that the result of ZSTC is reliable. Moreover, the number of sentences in contributing to both satisfaction and dissatisfaction.
a review was added as a control variable because the appearance fre-
quency of aspects and sentiments is impacted by the number of sen-
tences used in a review. The correlation map reveals that the number of 4.4. Robustness checks
sentences is negatively related to ratings, which is consistent with pre-
vious studies demonstrating that the length of a review is negatively 4.4.1. Robustness check with human annotations
related to ratings (Ghasemaghaei et al., 2018). In a scenario where ZSTC does not presume any annotated dataset,
model performance evaluation is not naturally available, and no ground-
Fig. 2. The restructured form of the dataset. a1 and a2 denote the first and the second aspects.
6
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
Fig. 3. The correlation map.
Fig. 4. The impact level-asymmetry map.
truth classification can be predicted with proven accuracy (Basile et al., Cohen’s kappa coefficients (Cohen, 1960) with manual annotations
2021). This study, therefore, had the dataset manually annotated to across 11 aspect categories and three sentiment categories. Cohen’s
compare labels with the results predicted by the ZSTC for the robustness kappa is known as a robust measure for the degree to which shows the
check. First, the researcher randomly sampled 1% of 45,295 sentences performance of classification (Kirilenko et al., 2018), and management
using a stratified sampling method because the numbers of predicted and marketing studies have employed it to evaluate the reliability of
aspects were not equally balanced. Thus, 453 sentences were distributed rater or annotation results (e.g., Hulland et al., 2018; Mirtalaie and
to three graduate students, who then annotated their aspects and sen- Hussain, 2020; Wu et al., 2020). As shown in Table 4, aggregated values
timents. If any of two or more manual annotations were equal, it was from multiple human annotators yield higher Cohen’s kappa coefficients
finally confirmed as the final label. If none of the three was equal (i.e., 67 (0.40 for the aspect and 0.64 for the sentiment, emphasized in bold in
cases in the aspect and 20 cases in the sentiment), the researcher the table) with ZSTC than those from any other individual annotators,
selected one among the candidates. suggesting that the ZSTC is efficient because it means that ZSTC captures
The reliability of ZSTC results was assessed by the comparison of a more collective human judgment. Furthermore, the findings indicate
7
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
Table 4 classification accuracy (0.8166 vs. 0.7701), despite relying on no
Cohen’s kappa and consistency between human annotations and ZSTC. labeled training data. The F1 scores reveal a more nuanced performance
Annotation Cohen’s κ Consistency profile. The method demonstrates competitive result in aspect classifi-
cation (0.5488 vs 0.6746) and sentiment classification (0.6307 vs
Aspect Sentiment Aspect Sentiment
0.7677). It should be noted that the fine-tuned BERT is used solely as a
HA1 0.27 [0.22, 0.32] 0.48 [0.41, 0.55] 37.97% 70.64% reference point and is not directly comparable to the ZSTC ensemble
HA2 0.35 [0.29, 0.40] 0.62 [0.56, 0.67] 45.47% 75.94%
method proposed in this study, since it requires extensive labeled data
HA3 0.36 [0.30, 0.41] 0.50 [0.45, 0.56] 44.81% 67.99%
HA-all 0.40 [0.34, 0.45] 0.64 [0.58, 0.69] 49.45% 77.92% for training, which is precisely the limitation the study seeks to
overcome.
Notes: N=453. HA1, HA2, and HA3 denote human annotators who manually
Importantly, when compared to traditional approaches commonly
labeled classes. HA-all denotes the combination of all human annotators. The
used by researchers, the method shows substantial improvements.
numbers in a bracket are the lowest and the highest coefficients in the 95%
Relative to VADER, it illustrates 23.8% increase in sentiment classifi-
confidence interval.
cation accuracy (0.8166 vs. 0.6597) and 19.9% gain in F1 score (0.6307
that the reliability of the aspect is nearly moderate (κ > 0.4), while vs 0.5261), while also providing aspect classification capabilities that
sentiment demonstrates substantial (κ > 0.6) inter-reliability (Landis conventional lexicon-based tools entirely lack.
and Koch, 1977). The consistency between ZSTC and human-annotated
results has the same pattern as Cohen’s kappa, yielding the highest 5. Discussion
consistency for the aggregated value.
Natural language processing has become ubiquitous in social science
journals. The recent advancement of LLMs in computer science has
4.4.2. Robustness check with training dataset
shown great potential but less affected hospitality and tourism man-
To further validate the proposed method and address the need for
agement literature. As shown in Fig. 1, this study proposes an over-
comprehensive model comparisons, this study applied the method to the
arching framework applying ZSTC to ABSA, which leads to IA analysis to
standard training dataset (SemEval2014) available on Kaggle (htt
enrich an understanding of aspects’ linear or nonlinear effects on
ps://www.kaggle.com) and compared it with traditional ABSA ap-
customer satisfaction. The entire process aligns with how to gain in-
proaches. Although this dataset is acquired and labeled in a restaurant
sights into the specific aspects and their roles in customer satisfaction by
domain, there is no comparable training dataset for the hotel domain,
presenting customer-generated texts into pre-trained LLMs without a
making it challenging to apply traditional machine-learning approaches
pre-labeled dataset. A case study adapting proposed methods produces
to ABSA for hotel reviews. This study chose the five most frequent aspect
effective results, which evoke subsequent theoretical and practical
categories from the SemEval2014 training dataset, excluding a miscel-
discussions.
laneous category, because the dataset entails almost 1300 labels, with
duplicates like ‘price’ and ‘prices.’ After this selection, a total of 867
labeled records with aspect categories such as ‘food,’ ‘service,’ ‘ambi- 5.1. Theoretical implications
ence,’ ‘price,’ and ‘place’ were used as the secondary source for
robustness validation. With the rapid increase of textual content on social media, how to
While BERT was designed initially for pre-training and is not ideally leverage these online texts encompassing a range of customer percep-
suited for NLI, it was included as a baseline model to evaluate ZSTC in a tions and attitudes on products and services has become very important.
scenario in which no-domain specific annotated data is available. Specifically, rather than referring to aggregated evaluation, delving into
Additionally, this study included a fine-tuned BERT model as a reference positive or negative sentiments of various aspects can capture multiple
point to demonstrate the performance ceiling achievable with super- dimensions. In this regard, ABSA has recently attracted academic
vised learning approaches that have access to labeled training data. To attention since analyzing sentiment polarity at a document level may
provide more comprehensive comparison with traditional approaches, lead to an insufficient understanding. However, the use of ABSA has
the study included VADER, a widely-used lexicon-based SA technique been limited in management literature. It requires solutions to address
that represents conventional approaches in the field. However, as issues to be effective: identifying aspects and detecting sentiment
VADER is primarily a SA tool without built-in aspect classification ca- valence matched with the identified aspects, particularly when labeled
pabilities, it could only be evaluated on sentiment classification tasks. data are not available
The performance of the proposed model was assessed for both aspect This study proposes state-of-the-art methods based on the ZSTC that
and sentiment classification, with comprehensive evaluation metrics address these issues, with significant implications for hospitality man-
including accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score, as presented in agement theories. First, by using pre-trained LLMs, this approach clas-
Table 5. sifies aspects at a sentence level and determines sentiment polarity for
As expected, BERT without fine-tuning performed poorly across both the identified aspect without requiring hospitality-specific training data.
tasks, demonstrating the necessity of alternative approaches. Remark- This methodological innovation directly addresses a persistent barrier to
ably, the proposed ZSTC ensemble model achieved performance com- advanced customer analytics in the hospitality research, thus enabling
parable to the supervised fine-tuned BERT model in aspect classification more sophisticated investigation of service quality dimensions and their
accuracy (0.6471 vs. 0.6724) and outperformed it in sentiment impact on satisfaction. This approach effectively overcomes the ABSA’s
Table 5
The performance comparison between BERT, VADER, and the proposed model using ZSTC.
Model Aspect Sentiment
Accuracy Precision Recall F1 Accuracy Precision Recall F1
BERT (a baseline) 0.0346 0.0709 0.0297 0.0371 ​ 0.1373 0.2045 0.2697 0.1374
BERT (fine-tuned) 0.6724 0.6802 0.6724 0.6746 ​ 0.7701 0.7666 0.7701 0.7677
VADER SA N/A N/A N/A N/A ​ 0.6597 0.5625 0.5311 0.5261
Proposed ensemble model 0.6471 0.5728 0.5695 0.5488 ​ 0.8166 0.6655 0.6345 0.6307
Note: The fine-tuned BERT model was trained on 80% of the dataset (training set), and its performance was evaluated on the remaining 20% (validation set). It should
be noted that the fine-tuned BERT model is feasible only when a pre-trained dataset with same category labels exists.
8
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
challenge of recognizing a sentiment polarity that aligns with the where there is no information on customer preferences for the product.
specified aspect. Since ZSTC can extract sentiments of attributes in virtually any product
Second, it does not need to rely on lexicons as an outward reference, similar to the planned product, those identified sentiments corre-
even when labeled data is unavailable. Third, since it uses LLMs that sponding to the targeted attributes can be mapped into the components
employ contextual embedding, the result of ZSTC can recognize the as references for the new product.
distinct meanings of the polysemous words, ensuring higher accuracy. Most studies concentrate on the aspects of ameliorating customer
This method applies to various domains and circumstances because it satisfaction. However, those aspects are not linearly related to customer
allows researchers to establish any classes of their interests. Specifically, satisfaction. Dissatisfiers are only related to dissatisfaction when cus-
it can investigate conceptually innovative features for emerging phe- tomers’ expectations are not met, while satisfiers are only related to
nomena like COVID-19, as done in the case study presented here. satisfaction when customers’ expectations are met. Despite the suc-
Furthermore, it can interpret complicated and multidimensional facets cessful identification of aspects using ABSA, finding out how they are
of concepts implied in a document, which has excellent potential for related to an accumulated satisfaction is demanding (Chang et al.,
extending social science research. Furthermore, to enhance trustwor- 2022). The case study based on the proposed methods shows how to
thiness, this study conducts two robustness checks, which compare the classify identified aspects into dissatisfiers, satisfiers, and hybrids.
result generated by an ensemble model of three LLMs with human an- Furthermore, a map showing the impact level and asymmetry highlights
notations (the first robustness check), and with pre-classified aspects the priorities of different aspects and can aid in enhancing companies’
and sentiments (the second robustness check). decision-making processes.
Although this study primarily focuses on proposing an innovative Thus, ABSA using ZSTC enables companies to understand customer
methodology for ABSA, its theoretical contribution to the literature is perceptions without intensive human labor. Even the voices of customer
substantial. As noted by Mehraliyev et al. (2022), sentiment holds the calls can be transformed into a textual format so that the proposed
potential to advance beyond regression analysis. Particularly in ABSA methods in this study can be employed. Moreover, firms that hesitate to
research, while Li et al. (2023)investigated the importance of aspects for invest in the analysis of customer sentiments at a granular level do not
restaurant survival in their ABSA research, few studies have examined need to suffer from expenses since the methods are flexible in future
the dynamic role of each aspect in shaping customer satisfaction. This changes or class expansions. It assists companies in enhancing their
study applied the proposed method within the framework of the Kano decision-making processes, thereby maintaining a competitive edge.
model and incorporates impact-asymmetry analysis to explore asym-
metric relationships with satisfaction. As aspects can be considered as 5.3. Limitations and future research
factors in textual data, the capability of identifying sentiment levels
associated with an individual aspect enables researchers to test hy- This study proposed state-of-the-art methods, and a case study
potheses through identified aspects and sentiments across vast volumes demonstrated their feasibility. However, it has limitations that may
of texts. guide future research directions. First, NLI based on LLM is subject to
The proposed methodological framework represents a fundamen- potential biases rooted in the collection of datasets on which the model
tally different paradigm from generative LLM approaches for several is trained. Even models trained on vast datasets contain inherent biases
practical and technical reasons. Processing large-scale hospitality re- related to factors such as race, gender, and nationality. Additionally,
view datasets (such as 45,295 sentences in this paper) requires efficient each model draws from different data sources, meaning that the per-
batch processing capabilities that our ensemble ZSTC approach provides formance of LLMs can vary depending on the application domain. This
through vectorized operations. Generative LLMs operate through indi- study employed an ensemble model that integrates three advanced
vidual prompt-response interactions requiring separate API calls for models to mitigate potential biases associated with any individual model
each classification task. They create cost inefficiencies and process and achieve more consistent results. As this is a critical research area in
bottlenecks unsuitable for research-scale analysis. Furthermore, the in- computational linguistics, researchers in hospitality and tourism should
tegrated analytical framework that combines ensemble ZSTC with IA closely monitor the progress of LLM techniques. In this regard, the
analysis addresses the persistent challenge of conducting ABSA without innovation of LLMs is ongoing, which will further enhance the overall
domain-specific annotated datasets, while establishing a replicable quality of NLI.
methodology that transcends individual model architectures. Second, one of the advantages of ZSTC is that the researcher can
freely define classes in advance. However, as the number of classes
5.2. Practical implications grows, classification accuracy will decrease. Unfortunately, the opti-
mized number of classes is unknown. As the optimized number of topics
At a document level, sentiment analysis is insufficient to understand is unknown in topic modeling, it is an overall problem with unsuper-
customers comprehensively. Although a firm can gain some insights into vised learning. However, there is a need to continue research on
the aggregated results of the analysis, it cannot often find where to go improving and finding an adequate number of classes in line with the
with those results. If it captures customers’ sentiment polarity at an development of NLP using LLMs. Furthermore, from a prompt engi-
aspect level, it can have a better chance to satisfy their expectations. neering perspective, future research could adopt the development of
Hence, ABSA is critical to having a competitive advantage from a firm’s more effective prompts or the use of ensemble prompt methods, which is
perspective. ABSA is valuable for in-depth understanding even when the an active area of discussion in current NLP research.
customers’ quantitative score (e.g., a rating) is unavailable. However, as Third, in the case study, this study only focused on reviews related to
mentioned above, ABSA has some disadvantages for ease of use. Most COVID-19, excluding other data, such as reviews before 2020, for the
companies, for example, do not have the resources to adapt up-to-date comparison as it was beyond the scope of this study. It will be mean-
ABSA methods that generally require a large dataset. ingful to compare changes in the sentiment polarity in aspects and their
The proposed methods in this study are easy to follow and provide impact levels over different periods in the future. Moreover, the pro-
alternative solutions. By taking advantage of pre-trained LLMs, ZSTC posed methods can be applied to other contexts where datasets with
does not need to build any complicated model. Besides, it does not need annotation do not exist. Integrating the ZSTC and the Kano model can
human annotation or data training work, which are burdensome for transform qualitative evaluations of aspects into quantitative features
most companies. Therefore, it can flexibly ensure the sentiment polarity for empirical research. Using this study as an example, future research
for any new aspect and reflect a change in business environments, which can expand upon these findings by comparing results based on different
previously required constructing and training a new dataset. In this re- conditions, such as the grades or locations of hotels. Researchers could
gard, the proposed methods contribute to new product development apply the proposed methods to different contexts of their interests.
9
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
6. Conclusion Bigorra, A.M., Isaksson, O., Karlberg, M., 2019. Aspect-based Kano categorization. Int. J.
Inf. Manag. 46, 163–172. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2018.11.004.
Brandt, R.D., 1987. A procedure for identifying value-enhancing service components
In the hospitality and tourism context, ABSA presents particular using customer satisfaction survey data. In: Surprenant, C.F. (Ed.), Add Value to
value as service experiences are inherently multidimensional. Tradi- Your Service: The Key to Success. American Marketing Association, Chicago, IL,
tional hospitality research has relied on structured surveys to capture pp. 61–64.
Brown, T.B., Mann, B., Ryder, N., Subbiah, M., Kaplan, J., Dhariwal, P., Neelakantan, A.,
these dimensions, whereas user-generated content can offer richer, un-
Shyam, P., Sastry, G., Askell, A., Agarwal, S., Herbert-Voss, A., Krueger, G.,
prompted insights. However, hospitality researchers face unique chal- Henighan, T., Child, R., Ramesh, A., Ziegler, D.M., Wu, J., Winter, C., Amodei, D.,
lenges in applying ABSA: (1) the diverse and evolving nature of service 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. ArXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/
arxiv.2005.14165.
attributes that vary across property types and service levels, (2) the lack
Chang, Y.C., Ku, C.H., Nguyen, D.D.Le, 2022. Predicting aspect-based sentiment using
of hospitality-specific labeled datasets for training supervised models, deep learning and information visualization: the impact of COVID-19 on the airline
and (3) the need to connect sentiment analysis with service management industry. Inf. Manag 59, 103587. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2021.103587.
Chauhan, G.S., Meena, Y.K., Gopalani, D., Nahta, R., 2022. A mixed unsupervised
frameworks that can guide operational improvements.
method for aspect extraction using BERT. Multimed. Tools Appl. https://doi.org/
This study addresses these hospitality-focused challenges by pro- 10.1007/s11042-022-13023-7.
posing an innovative methodology that integrates ABSA using ZSTC Chen, J., Geng, Y., Chen, Z., Horrocks, I., Pan, J.Z., Chen, H., 2021. Knowledge-aware
zero-shot learning: survey and perspective. arXiv.
with impact-asymmetry analysis based on the Kano model. This
Cohen, J., 1960. A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales. Educ. Psychol. Meas. 20,
approach eliminates the need for domain-specific training data or 37–46. https://doi.org/10.1177/001316446002000104.
extensive annotation processes, while directly identifying aspect cate- Dagan, I., Glickman, O., Magnini, B., 2006. The PASCAL recognising textual entailment
gories based on pre-defined targets. This methodological innovation challenge. Lect. Notes Comput. Sci. (Incl. Subser. Lect. Notes Artif. Intell. Lect. Notes
Bioinforma. ) 3944 LNAI 177–190. https://doi.org/10.1007/11736790_9.
transforms qualitative customer feedback into quantitative variables Dwivedi, Y.K., Ismagilova, E., Hughes, D.L., Carlson, J., Filieri, R., Jacobson, J., Jain, V.,
that support theory-based decision-making. Karjaluoto, H., Kefi, H., Krishen, A.S., Kumar, V., Rahman, M.M., Raman, R.,
The theoretical contribution lies in advancing our understanding of Rauschnabel, P.A., Rowley, J., Salo, J., Tran, G.A., Wang, Y., 2021. Setting the future
of digital and social media marketing research: Perspectives and research
how different service aspects asymmetrically influence customer satis- propositions. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 59, 1–37. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
faction in hospitality settings, filling a significant gap in ABSA research ijinfomgt.2020.102168.
using LLMs within hospitality contexts. The methodological framework Gaspar, R., Pedro, C., Panagiotopoulos, P., Seibt, B., 2016. Beyond positive or negative:
Qualitative sentiment analysis of social media reactions to unexpected stressful
provides empirical support for non-linear relationships between service events. Comput. Hum. Behav. 56, 179–191. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
dimensions and overall satisfaction, which contributes to theory build- chb.2015.11.040.
ing in hospitality management. For practical application, this frame- Gera, A., Halfon, A., Shnarch, E., Perlitz, Y., Ein-Dor, L., Slonim, N., 2022. Zero-shot text
classification with self-training. arXiv.
work enables hotel managers to strategically interpret which service
Ghasemaghaei, M., Eslami, S.P., Deal, K., Hassanein, K., 2018. Reviews’ length and
elements require immediate attention to prevent dissatisfaction (e.g., sentiment as correlates of online reviews’ ratings. Internet Res. 28, 544–563. https://
facilities and price in the case study) versus which elements drive doi.org/10.1108/IntR-12-2016-0394.
Han, X., Zhao, W., Ding, N., Liu, Z., Sun, M., 2022. PTR: prompt tuning with rules for text
exceptional satisfaction when executed well (e.g., safety and design
classification. AI Open 3, 182–192. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aiopen.2022.11.003.
features). By classifying aspects as satisfiers, dissatisfiers, or hybrids, He, P., Liu, X., Gao, J., Chen, W., 2021. Deberta: decoding-enhanced bert with
managers can prioritize service improvements effectively. This nuanced disentangled attention. ICLR 2021 9th Int. Conf. Learn. Represent.
understanding is particularly valuable in resource-constrained Henze, N., Zirkler, B., 1990. A class of invariant consistent tests for multivariate
normality. Commun. Stat. Theory Methods 19, 3595–3617. https://doi.org/
environments. 10.1080/03610929008830400.
Herzberg, F., 1968. One more time: How do you motivate employees? Harv. Bus. Rev.
53, 62.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Holtzman, A., West, P., Shwartz, V., Choi, Y., Zettlemoyer, L., 2022. Surface Form
Competition: Why the Highest Probability Answer Isn’t Always Right. EMNLP 2021 -
Wooseok Kwon: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original 2021 Conf. Empir. Methods Nat. Lang. Process. Proc, pp. 7038–7051. https://doi.
org/10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.564.
draft, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Software, Resources, Hu, K.C., Chia, K.C., Lu, M., Liang, Y.L., 2022. Using importance–performance analysis,
Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, goal difficulty and the Kano model to prioritize improvements in the quality of home
Data curation, Conceptualization. delivery logistics services. Int. J. Logist. Manag 33, 477–498. https://doi.org/
10.1108/IJLM-12-2020-0491.
Hu, F., Teichert, T., Deng, S., Liu, Y., Zhou, G., 2021. Dealing with pandemics: an
investigation of the effects of COVID-19 on customers’ evaluations of hospitality
Declaration of Competing Interest services. Tour. Manag. 85, 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2021.104320.
Huber, P.J., Ronchetti, E.M., 2009. ed. Robust Statistics, 2nd ed. John Wiley & Sons,
Hoboken, NJ.
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
Hulland, J., Baumgartner, H., Smith, K.M., 2018. Marketing survey research best
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence practices: evidence and recommendations from a review of JAMS articles. J. Acad.
the work reported in this paper. Mark. Sci. 46, 92–108. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11747-017-0532-y.
Jeong, B., Yoon, J., Lee, J.M., 2019. Social media mining for product planning: a product
opportunity mining approach based on topic modeling and sentiment analysis. Int. J.
References Inf. Manag. 48, 280–290. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2017.09.009.
Kano, N., Seraku, N., Takahashi, F., Tsuji, S., 1984. Attractive quality and must-be
quality. J. Jpn. Soc. Qual. Control 14, 147–156.
Al-Natour, S., Turetken, O., 2020. A comparative assessment of sentiment analysis and Kar, A.K., Dwivedi, Y.K., 2020. Theory building with big data-driven research – moving
star ratings for consumer reviews. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 54, 102132. https://doi.org/ away from the “What” towards the “Why. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 54, 102205. https://doi.
10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102132.
org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102205.
Baccianella, S., Esuli, A., Sebastiani, F., 2010. SENTIWORDNET 3.0: an enhanced lexical
Kirilenko, A.P., Stepchenkova, S.O., Kim, H., Li, X. (Robert), 2018. Automated sentiment
r R e e s s o o u u r r c . e E f v o a r l . s e L n r. t i 2 m 0 e 1 n 0 t 0 an 2 a 2 ly 0 s 0 i – s 2 a 2 n 0 d 4 o . pinion mining. Proc. 7th Int. Conf. Lang. analysis in tourism: comparison of approaches. J. Travel Res. 57, 1012–1025.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287517729757.
Baier, D., Rese, A., 2020. How to increase multichannel shopping satisfaction? An
Koenker, R., 1981. A note on studentizing a test for heteroscedasticity. J. Econ. 17,
adapted Kano based stage-gate approach to select new technologies. J. Retail. 107–112. https://doi.org/10.1016/0304-4076(81)90062-2.
Consum. Serv. 56, 102172. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2020.102172.
Basile, A., P´erez-Torro´, G., Franco-Salvador, M., 2021. Probabilistic ensembles of Zero- Lai, I.K.W., Hitchcock, M., 2016. A comparison of service quality attributes for stand-
alone and resort-based luxury hotels in Macau: 3-dimensional importance-
a L n an d g f . e P w r - o s c h e o s t s . l e R a A rn N in LP g m 12 o 8 d – e 1 ls 3 7 fo . r h e tt m ps o : t / i / o d n o c i. l o a r s g si / fi 1 c 0 a . t 2 io 6 n 6 . 1 I 5 n / t 9 . 7 C 8 o - n 9 f 5 . 4 R -4 ec 5 e 2 n -0 t 7 A 2 d - v 4 . _ 0 N 1 a 6 t . . performance analysis. Tour. Manag 55, 139–159. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
tourman.2016.01.007.
Bi, J.W., Liu, Y., Fan, Z.P., Cambria, E., 2019. Modelling customer satisfaction from
Lampert, C.H., Nickisch, H., Harmeling, S., 2014. Attribute-based classification for zero-
online reviews using ensemble neural network and effect-based Kano model. Int. J.
Prod. Res. 57, 7068–7088. https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2019.1574989. s 4 h 5 o 3 t – v 4 i 6 s 5 u . a h l t o t b p j s e :/ c / t d c o a i t . e o g r o g r / i 1 z 0 at .1 io 1 n 0 . 9 a / . T I P E A E M E I T .2 ra 0 n 1 s 3 . .1 P 4 a 0 tt . ern Anal. Mach. Intell. 36,
Bi, J., Liu, Y., Fan, Z., Zhang, J., 2020. Exploring asymmetric effects of attribute
Landis, J.R., Koch, G.G., 1977. The measurement of observer agreement for categorical
performance on customer satisfaction in the hotel industry. Tour. Manag. 77,
data. Biometrics 33, 159. https://doi.org/10.2307/2529310.
104006. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2019.104006.
10
W. Kwon I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f H o s p i t a l i t y M a n a g e m e n t 133 (2026) 104397
Lee, J., Fakfare, P., Han, H., 2020. Honeymoon tourism: exploring must-be, hybrid and Pushp, P.K., Srivastava, M.M., Train once, test anywhere: Zero-shot learning for text
value-added quality attributes. Tour. Manag. 76, 103958. https://doi.org/10.1016/ classification. arXiv 1–6, 2018.
j.tourman.2019.103958. Raman, R., Aljafari, R., Venkatesh, V., Richardson, V., 2022. Mixed-methods research in
Lewis, M., Liu, Y., Goyal, N., Ghazvininejad, M., Mohamed, A., Levy, O., Stoyanov, V., the age of analytics, an exemplar leveraging sentiments from news articles to predict
Zettlemoyer, L., 2020. BART: denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training for firm performance. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 64. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
natural language generation, translation, and comprehension. Proc. Annu. Meet. ijinfomgt.2021.102451.
Assoc. Comput. Linguist 7871–7880. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl- Sainz, O., Rigau, G., 2021. Ask2Transformers: zero-shot domain labelling with pre-
main.703. trained language models. GWC 2021 Proc. 11th Glob. Wordnet Conf. 44, 52.
Li, H., Yu, B.X.B., Li, G., Gao, H., 2023. Restaurant survival prediction using customer- Schouten, K., van der Weijde, O., Frasincar, F., Dekker, R., 2018. Supervised and
generated content: an aspect-based sentiment analysis of online reviews. Tour. unsupervised aspect category detection for sentiment analysis with co-occurrence
Manag 96, 104707. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2022.104707. data. IEEE Trans. Cyber 48, 1263–1275. https://doi.org/10.1109/
Liu, Y., Ott, M., Goyal, N., Du, J., Joshi, M., Chen, D., Levy, O., Lewis, M., TCYB.2017.2688801.
Zettlemoyer, L., Stoyanov, V., 2019. RoBERTa: a robustly optimized BERT Tubishat, M., Idris, N., Abushariah, M.A.M., 2018. Implicit aspect extraction in sentiment
pretraining approach. Comput. Sci. analysis: review, taxonomy, oppportunities, and open challenges. Inf. Process.
Liu, P., Yuan, W., Fu, J., Jiang, Z., Hayashi, H., Neubig, G., 2023. Pre-train, prompt, and Manag. 54, 545–563. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2018.03.008.
predict: a systematic survey of prompting methods in natural language processing. Venugopalan, M., Gupta, D., 2022. An enhanced guided LDA model augmented with
ACM Comput. Surv. 55. https://doi.org/10.1145/3560815. BERT based semantic strength for aspect term extraction in sentiment analysis.
Liu, P., Zhang, K., Dong, X., Wang, P., 2022. A big data-kano and SNA-CRP based QFD Knowl. Based Syst. 246. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2022.108668.
model: application to product design under Chinese new e-commerce model (PP,). Wang, W., Zheng, V.W., Yu, H., Miao, C., 2019. A survey of zero-shot learning: settings,
IEEE Trans. Eng. Manag 1–15. https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2022.3227094. methods, and applications. ACM Trans. Intell. Syst. Technol. 10, 1–37. https://doi.
Luo, Y., Tang, R. (Liang), 2019. Understanding hidden dimensions in textual reviews on org/10.1145/3293318.
Airbnb: An application of modified latent aspect rating analysis (LARA). Int. J. Hosp. Wei, J., Bosma, M., Zhao, V.Y., Guu, K., Yu, A.W., Lester, B., Du, N., Dai, A.M., Le, Q.V.,
Manag. 80, 144–154. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2019.02.008. 2022. Finetuned language models are zero-shot learners. arXiv Prepr. arXiv:2109,
Martilla, J.A., James, J.C., 1977. Importance-performance analysis. J. Mark. 41, 77–79. 1–46.
Mehraliyev, F., Chan, I.C.C., Kirilenko, A.P., 2022. Sentiment analysis in hospitality and Widmann, T., Wich, M., 2023. Creating and comparing dictionary, word embedding, and
tourism: a thematic and methodological review. Int. J. Contemp. Hosp. Manag. 34, transformer-based models to measure discrete emotions in german political text.
46–77. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJCHM-02-2021-0132. Polit. Anal. 31, 626–641. https://doi.org/10.1017/pan.2022.15.
Mikolov, T., Sutskever, I., Chen, K., Corrado, G., Dean, J., 2013. Distributed Wu, P., Li, X., Shen, S., He, D., 2020. Social media opinion summarization using emotion
representations ofwords and phrases and their compositionality. Adv. Neural Inf. cognition and convolutional neural networks. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 51. https://doi.org/
Process. Syst. 1–9. 10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.07.004.
Mikuli´c, J., Prebeˇzac, D., 2008. Prioritizing improvement of service attributes using Xiao, Q., 2021. Understanding the asymmetric perceptions of smartphone security from
impact range-performance analysis and impact-asymmetry analysis. Manag. Serv. security feature perspective: a comparative study. Telemat. Inform. 58, 101535.
Qual. 18, 559–576. https://doi.org/10.1108/09604520810920068. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2020.101535.
Mikuli´c, J., Prebeˇzac, D., 2011. A critical review of techniques for classifying quality Yadav, M.L., Roychoudhury, B., 2019. Effect of trip mode on opinion about hotel aspects:
attributes in the Kano model. Manag. Serv. Qual. 21, 46–66. https://doi.org/ a social media analysis approach. Int. J. Hosp. Manag 80, 155–165. https://doi.org/
10.1108/09604521111100243. 10.1016/j.ijhm.2019.02.002.
Mirtalaie, M.A., Hussain, O.K., 2020. Sentiment aggregation of targeted features by Ye, Z., Geng, Y., Chen, Jiaoyan, Xu, X., Zheng, S., Wang, F., Chen, Jingmin, Zhang, J.,
capturing their dependencies: making sense from customer reviews. Int. J. Inf. Chen, H., 2020. Zero-shot text classification via reinforced self-training. Proc. Annu.
Manag. 53. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102097. Meet. Assoc. Comput. Linguist 3014–3024. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl-
Murtadha, A., Pan, S., Wen, B., Su, J., Zhang, W., Liu, Y., 2022. BERT-ASC: Auxiliary- main.272.
Sentence Construction for Implicit Aspect Learning in Sentiment Analysis. Yin, W., Hay, J., Roth, D., 2019. Benchmarking zero-shot text classification: Datasets,
Picolo, J.D., Tontini, G., 2018. Integrating methods for the prioritization of innovations evaluation and entailment approach. EMNLP-IJCNLP 2019 - 2019 Conf. Empir.
and improvements in services. J. Serv. Mark. 32, 820–834. https://doi.org/10.1108/ Methods Nat. Lang. Process. 9th Int. Jt. Conf. Nat. Lang. Process. Proc. Conf.,
JSM-12-2015-0383. pp. 3914–3923. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/d19-1404
Pontiki, M., Galanis, D., Papageorgiou, H., Androutsopoulos, I., Manandhar, S., Al- Zhang, W., Li, X., Deng, Y., Bing, L., Lam, W., 2023. A survey on aspect-based sentiment
Smadi, M., Al-Ayyoub, M., Zhao, Y., Qin, B., De Clercq, O., Hoste, V., Apidianaki, M., analysis: tasks, methods, and challenges. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 35,
Tannier, X., Loukachevitch, N., Kotelnikov, E., Bel, N., Jim´enez-Zafra, María, 11019–11038. https://doi.org/10.1109/TKDE.2022.3230975.
Eryig˘it, S., 2016. SemEval-2016 task 5: aspect based sentiment analysis. G 19–30. Zhao, X., Ouyang, S., Yu, Z., Wu, M., Li, L., 2022. Pre-trained language modes can be
Pourpanah, F., Abdar, M., Luo, Y., Zhou, X., Wang, R., Lim, C.P., Wang, X., Wu, Q.M.J., fully zero-shot learners. arXiv 1–16.
2023. A review of generalized zero-shot learning methods. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal.
Mach. Intell. 45 (4), 4051–4070. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2022.3191696.
11