Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
TourismManagement
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/tourman
ImprovingsentimentanalysisintourismthroughLLM-enhancedirony
detection
Wenhui Liu, Likang Wu, Hongke Zhao ∗
College of Management and Economics, Tianjin University,Tianjin,300072,China
Laboratory of Computation and Analytics of Complex Management Systems (CACMS),China
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: As user-generated content continues to proliferate across digital tourism platforms such as TripAdvisor, it
Sentiment analysis has become a critical resource for evaluating service performance and tourist satisfaction within the tourism
Tourism reviews sector. Among these reviews, ironic ones often reveal underlying issues or dissatisfaction, reflecting more
Large language model genuine and reliable human emotions to influence users’ choices. However, conventional sentiment analysis
I
I
r
r
o
o
n
n
i
y
c
r
r
e
e
c
v
o
i
g
e
n
w
i
s
tion
methods often fail to recognize irony, which can express negative sentiments through a superficially positive
tone. To address the challenge of accurately classifying sentiments in tourism reviews, particularly ironic
ones that can mislead traditional sentiment analysis models, this study introduces an innovative sentiment
analysis framework named TSI. Leveraging large language models (LLM) for data augmentation, our approach
integrates transfer learning and domain-specific knowledge, enhancing detection accuracy through advanced
natural language processing (NLP) techniques and deep learning technologies. Extensive experiments on travel-
related datasets from Yelp and Tripadvisor demonstrate that TSI outperforms traditional models in both
overall sentiment classification accuracy and the identification of negative sentiments, particularly in ironic
reviews. This work advances theoretical understanding and practical implementation of sentiment analysis
within the tourism sector, equipping businesses with refined tools for interpreting customer sentiments. A new
dataset targeting ironic travel reviews is also released to support ongoing scholarly exploration. For better
reproduction, the source code is available.1
1. Introduction comments on these platforms, providing valuable information for both
tourists and tourism-related businesses (Xu et al., 2022). For instance,
The tourist experience is deeply influenced by emotional factors
Xiaohongshu, a representative social platform from China, that ex-
at multiple stages (Prayag et al., 2013), particularly before the jour-
hibits outstanding performance in cultural and tourism user-generated
ney begins, when emotions guide both the desire to travel and the
selection of travel destinations (Goossens, 2000). During the trip, emo-
content (UGC) marketing, has surpassed 312 million monthly active
tional intensity can fluctuate on a daily basis (Hosany et al., 2020). users.2
Moreover, emotional responses from tourists are key determinants in In recent years, the presence of ironic sentiment in online reviews
how they assess their travel experiences afterward, including their has increased, primarily due to the implicit expression of consumer
level of satisfaction (del Bosque & Martín, 2008), destination attach-
sentiment (Joshi et al., 2017). Irony is a common rhetorical device
ment (Yuksel et al., 2010), trust, commitment (Han & Jeong, 2013),
on social media platforms (Guan et al., 2025a), occurring in up to
and loyalty (Yoon & Uysal, 2005). Especially negative emotional ex-
periences often lead to reduced levels of satisfaction and customer 8.5% of online reviews3 and is difficult to recognize by software
loyalty (Lee et al., 2008). As social media and online review sites tools (Papapicco & Mininni, 2020). Linguistic studies suggest that irony
have rapidly expanded, content created by users has emerged as a arises when an incongruity exists between the situational context and
key resource for assessing service quality and tourist satisfaction (Poly- the literal meaning conveyed by a statement (Gerrig & Goldvarg, 2000;
zos et al., 2023). Users share their travel experiences, insights, and
∗ Corresponding author at: College of Management and Economics, Tianjin University,Tianjin,300072,China.
E-mail address: hongke@tju.edu.cn (H. Zhao).
1 https://github.com/252820/Tourism-Model
2 https://www.netinfluencer.com/xiaohongshu-social-media-investment-dst-global/
3 https://gupea.ub.gu.se/handle/2077/23031
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2025.105272
Received 24 January 2025; Received in revised form 25 July 2025; Accepted 25 July 2025
Available online 8 August 2025
0261-5177/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Fig. 1. Effect of ironic review.
Ivanko & Pexman, 2003; Joshi et al., 2015; Zhang et al., 2019). When both users and platforms in deriving valuable insights, particularly
applied to tourism review texts, we define irony as ‘‘verbal irony when attempting to detect irony or deeper emotional expressions.
characterized by sentiment reversal, where the sentiment expressed Text sentiment analysis is a crucial task for promoting numerous
contradicts the literal meaning. Specifically, the literal expression con- tourism applications (Sharma, Adhikary, & Borah, 2020). It involves
veys a positive sentiment, while the intended meaning is negative, detecting and categorizing sentiments embedded in user-generated con-
or vice versa’’. Ironic elements can induce machines to focus on su- tent related to tourism by leveraging advanced algorithms (Jim et al.,
perficially positive descriptive words, thus making opposite sentiment 2024). The purpose is to assess whether the author expresses a posi-
judgments on the comments (Sarmento et al., 2009). Moreover, com- tive, negative, or neutral stance regarding a given topic, product, or
pared with the large amount of monotonous and artificially generated service (Wankhade et al., 2022). Due to the openness of tourism review
content released by some platforms and merchants for marketing pur- communication, consumers tend to approach it with an emotional
poses, ironic sentences that reflect more genuine and delicate human attitude and often express negative sentiment in their reviews (Goldin
emotions (Bajerski, 2016) are more reliable and worthy of reference et al., 2008). Conducting sentiment analysis on these reviews can
for users. Given that 70.9% of travelers acknowledge the influence improve the sales performance of enterprises, especially in the tourism
of online reputation on their travel decisions,4 it is essential to ex- industry (Rialp-Criado et al., 2018). However, traditional sentiment
amine this factor in tourism contexts such as online travel planning. analysis tools, while effective in broad strokes of positive or negative
Notably, when negative reviews exhibit heightened emotional intensity sentiment detection, fail when encountering the complexities of human
and authenticity, they tend to significantly undermine trust in the emotions and linguistic expressions such as irony (Balamurali et al.,
destination (Lujun et al., 2021). 2024; Hu & Liu, 2012). Current algorithms primarily focus on the
Given an intuitive case, in Fig. 1, a positive review praises a beach as transformation of general language models, with insufficient capability
‘‘idyllic’’ with ‘‘crystal-clear water’’ and ‘‘powdery sand’’, emphasizing to recognize subtle implied meanings and emotions (Chakravarthi et al.,
its appeal. In contrast, an ironic review describes the same beach as 2021). Additionally, they lack adequate integration and modeling of
‘‘picturesque’’, pointing out the presence of litter that ‘‘harmoniously’’ domain-specific knowledge, particularly in the context of common
blends with the sand, humorously highlighting a negative aspect. How- tourism-related information.
ever, sentiment analysis detector classifies both genuinely positive and To tackle this challenge, we introduce a novel Text Sentiment clas-
ironic reviews as ‘‘positive sentiment’’, failing to distinguish between sification model that incorporates Irony knowledge, TSI, specifically
true positivity and irony. This results in misleading outcomes, hindering designed to accurately classify the sentiment of ordinary and ironic
platforms and service providers — such as hotels and tourist destina- travel reviews. By integrating large language model (LLM)-based data
tions — from obtaining accurate feedback and effectively identifying augmentation, domain-specific irony patterns, and context-aware senti-
and addressing the issues raised by users. For instance, if a review like ment modeling, the proposed TSI framework addresses key limitations
‘‘This restaurant is truly unique, it can turn a simple salad into a disaster!’’ is in prior work and enables more accurate detection of sentiment in
misclassified as expressing positive sentiment, it can lead to a misjudg- tourism reviews. The approach is designed based on the following three
ment of tourist feedback by service providers. Such misclassification views.
obscures underlying issues, rendering feedback analysis ineffective.
Modern travel platforms such as TripAdvisor and Yelp allow users to • V1: Addressing the ironic reviews sparsity issue can improve the
share their experiences through comments and ratings, offering impor- algorithm’s ability to perceive irony.
tant attitudinal and emotional feedback to service providers (Tsai et al., • V2: The ironic knowledge available in the public domain can
2020). Nevertheless, language often carries subtle emotional cues that enhance the model’s ability to detect irony.
are not fully captured by conventional rating systems (Geetha et al., • V3: Leveraging knowledge from the tourism field can aid in
2017). Additionally, some platforms and social media sites do not offer designing a model tailored for analyzing travel reviews.
rating features, thereby restricting users’ ability to efficiently interpret
the sentiment of reviews. For instance, platforms like Instagram and We will validate these viewpoints through experiments. The approach
Xiaohongshu lack integrated rating tools, which pose challenges for we proposed combines semantic analysis with context-aware tech-
niques to detect the implicit sentiment cues embedded in irony, thereby
avoiding surface-level misinterpretations. Specifically, this method con-
4 https://www.mara-solutions.com/post/online-review-statistics-every- sists of three main stages. First, due to data scarcity, we use a large
hotel-needs-to-know-in-2023# language model (LLM) for data augmentation, generating ironic travel
2
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
reviews to mitigate the issue of data imbalance. Second, given the pat- capacities (Tokarchuk et al., 2022) and to predict business outcomes
tern similarities commonly found in ironic expressions, cross-domain such as restaurant survival (Li, Yu, et al., 2023).
transfer learning offers a promising solution to the scarcity of irony- The utility of sentiment analysis extends to uncovering customer
related knowledge within the tourism sector (Celik et al., 2020; Guan preferences regarding hotels (Bian et al., 2022; Tsai et al., 2020), sup-
et al., 2025a; Guo et al., 2021; Kadli & Vidyavathi, 2023). Therefore, we porting the development of recommendation systems (Ray et al., 2021),
combine ironic knowledge transfer learning with keyword weight ad- and forecasting financial performance in the tourism sector (Polyzos
justment tailored to the tourism domain, enhancing the model’s under- et al., 2024). Empirical evidence consistently links review sentiment to
standing of ironic expressions and improving the accuracy of tourism customer ratings and satisfaction (Geetha et al., 2017; Sharma, Park,
review classification. Finally, we evaluate the model’s accuracy and & Nicolau, 2020), underlining its practical importance for strategic
practicality through various experiments and a case study. Compared decision-making (Jain et al., 2022).
to existing approaches, our model shows significant improvements However, most existing studies have focused on aggregate sentiment
in accuracy while maintaining generalizability and scalability across signals while often overlooking nuanced linguistic expressions — such
diverse datasets. As far as we are aware, this is the first study to utilize as irony — which may compromise classification accuracy. The limited
LLM for generating and classifying ironic content in travel reviews. attention to such subtleties constrains the operational effectiveness of
Our findings validate the potential of LLMs for data augmentation and current approaches in complex real-world scenarios.
contribute to broadening the scope of sentiment analysis within the
tourism domain. A detailed description of our method can be found 2.2. Methodology of sentiment analysis
in Section 3.
This study contributes to three aspects. First, this study tackles the The evolution of sentiment analysis methods in tourism has closely
challenge of identifying sentiment in ironic tourism reviews by propos- followed broader developments in natural language processing. Early
ing a robust approach that advances sentiment analysis in this domain. research relied on sentiment lexicons and basic machine learning clas-
By resolving the subtle complexities of irony, our approach provides a sifiers (Pang & Lee, 2008; Turney & Littman, 2003). Algorithms such as
more reliable framework for understanding user feedback in the context Naïve Bayes (Su et al., 2011), LightGBM (Ke et al., 2017), and SVM (Pu
of tourism. Second, our work extends beyond theoretical contributions et al., 2019) achieved initial success but were limited by their reliance
to have practical implications in areas such as social media review anal- on labor-intensive feature engineering (An & Moon, 2022).
ysis, customer feedback interpretation, and enhancing user experience.
With the emergence of deep learning architectures — including CNN
Our work not only deepens the understanding of review content by
(Kim, 2014), BERT (Sousa et al., 2019), Transformer (Naseem et al.,
going beyond simple numerical ratings but also uncovers the sentiment
2020), TextCNN (Wang, Wang, et al., 2022), and Bi-LSTM (Cheng &
complexity embedded in user opinions. By accurately discerning the
Chen, 2021) — the accuracy of sentiment classification has improved
true sentiment behind ironic reviews, our method helps businesses and
significantly, particularly for longer and more complex reviews (Li,
platforms gain deeper insights into customer experiences. This enables
Li, et al., 2023; Paolanti et al., 2021). These models enable auto-
them to better identify areas for improvement, tailor their services
mated feature extraction and robust context modeling; however, their
more effectively, and ultimately improve customer satisfaction and
performance still degrades in the presence of sophisticated language
phenomena such as irony (Balamurali et al., 2024).
engagement. Third, to support further research in this area, we have
Transfer learning has emerged as a promising strategy to address
made a new dataset publicly available, specifically designed to examine
domain heterogeneity and improve model generalization (Ali et al.,
ironic comments in tourism reviews. The dataset offers a meaningful
2023; Celik et al., 2020; Guo et al., 2021; Liang et al., 2021). Recent
foundation for scholars seeking to investigate how irony influences
work applies transfer learning not only within sentiment analysis tasks
consumer perception and decision-making processes within the tourism
but also across related tasks such as irony detection (Guan et al., 2025b;
sector.
Zhang et al., 2019). Nevertheless, the integration of domain-specific
The structure of this paper is as follows: Section 2 outlines relevant
knowledge and explicit handling of irony remains underexplored in
literature in the field; Section 3 elaborates on the methodology adopted
tourism text analytics.
in this study. Section 4 reports the experimental design and correspond-
In summary, despite significant technological advances, existing
ing results, while Section 5 concludes with a summary of insights and
studies often lack domain-specific adaptation, leading to suboptimal
their broader implications.
performance in tourism-related sentiment analysis. To address this
limitation, this study proposes a novel approach that integrates transfer
2. Literature review
learning with domain-specific knowledge, aiming to improve both the
accuracy of sentiment polarity classification and the depth of contextual
2.1. Sentiment analysis in tourism understanding in tourism text analysis.
UGC from online travel platforms has become a primary data source 3. Methodology
for tourism research, capturing travelers’ experiences, sentiments, and
decision-making processes (Wang, Huang, & Liu-Lastres, 2022). Accu- This section will introduce the irony-aware sentiment recognition
rately extracting and interpreting emotions from tourism-related texts is model that we proposed, along with the overall framework for perform-
essential for understanding tourist behavior and promoting the sustain- ing our task.
able development of the tourism industry (Alaei et al., 2019; Feldman,
2013). 3.1. TSI model
Recent studies have demonstrated that sentiment analysis not only
supports destination image construction and brand promotion but The TSI model consists of four key modules: Tourism Domain En-
also significantly influences traveler decision-making and satisfaction hancement Module, Textual Attention Computing Module, Irony-Aware
(Hosany et al., 2020; Ladhari, 2009; Maital, 1999; Neidhardt et al., Transfer Learning Module, and Sentiment Classification Module. This
2017). For instance, Li, Gao, and Song (2023) integrated sentiment model effectively analyzes tourism review data by integrating public
analysis of user reviews to enhance forecasting models for tourism domain knowledge, BERT’s pre-trained knowledge, and the strengths of
demand, while (Liu et al., 2019) applied sentiment modeling to eval- the self-attention architecture. By doing so, it can thoroughly capture
uate perceptions of Australian destinations among Chinese tourists. the semantic information across the entire review. Fig. 2 provides an
Other studies have used sentiment signals to assess destination carrying illustration of the TSI model’s structure.
3
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Fig. 2. Architecture of the proposed TSI model.
(1) Module 1∶ Tourism Domain Enhancement Module terms for tokenization (Chen et al., 2016; Kim et al., 2019). TF-IDF
To design a model tailored for analyzing travel reviews, this module assesses a word’s importance within a document by evaluating both
integrates BERT embeddings with domain-specific knowledge from the its frequency in the document and its rarity across the entire cor-
tourism field (i.e., a set of relevant keywords) to construct features. pus. A higher TF-IDF score reflects a word’s greater significance. This
First, the BERT model is used to convert the input review text into an approach effectively emphasizes crucial vocabulary while minimizing
embedding vector. storage and computational demands (Tian & Zhang, 2023).
In summary, this module utilizes BERT embeddings to generate
𝐞(𝐱)=𝐵𝐸𝑅𝑇(𝐱), (1)
rich, contextual semantic representations of the review text, capturing
where 𝐱 represents the input review text, and 𝐞(𝐱) is the embedding both the overall meaning and intricate relationships between words.
vector obtained by processing the input review text through the BERT At the same time, the keyword weight adjustment process amplifies
model. 𝐵𝐸𝑅𝑇(⋅) denotes the encoding process carried out by the BERT the significance of key features directly related to the tourism domain.
model. BERT (Devlin et al., 2019), a pre-trained model, excels in cap- This method integrates both domain-specific knowledge and review-
turing deep semantic relationships within text. Its primary strength lies specific terminology, ensuring the model prioritizes the most relevant
in its bidirectional Transformer architecture, which enables enhanced terms. The combined focus on contextual comprehension and domain
text comprehension by effectively capturing contextual information. relevance strengthens the model’s capability to accurately identify
Then, to further enhance knowledge in the tourism domain, we adjust sentiment in tourism reviews, thereby improving the overall sentiment
the weight of each keyword in the domain keyword list, increasing analysis process.
its embedding weight to (1+𝑝) times its original value. Here, 𝑝 is (2) Module 2∶ Textual Attention Computing Module
a hyperparameter that controls the weight increase ratio, which lies In this module, we employ the self-attention mechanism to calculate
between 0 and 1. word-level attention for the review text. The process begins by applying
three distinct linear transformations to the embedding vectors of each
𝐄=𝐞(𝐱)+𝑝⋅𝐞(𝐱)⊙𝐉, (2)
word to generate the query 𝑄, key 𝐾, and value 𝑉 representations,
where 𝐄 represents the final embedding vector after weight adjustment, respectively. Next, attention scores are computed by calculating the dot
√
and ⊙ denotes the element-wise multiplication (Hadamard product). product between 𝑄 and 𝐾, scaled by 𝑑 , where 𝑑 is the dimension of
𝑘 𝑘
The indicator function 𝐉 indicates whether the 𝑖th dimension of the em- the key vector. The scores are then passed through the softmax function
bedding corresponds to a domain keyword. If 𝐽 =1, the corresponding to obtain the normalized attention weights 𝐀. Finally, the context-
𝑖
weight is amplified; if 𝐽 =0, the weight remains unchanged. aware representation 𝐂 for each word is obtained by multiplying the
𝑖
The domain keyword list consists of two components: one derived attention weights matrix 𝐀 with the values matrix 𝑉. This procedure
from large language models (i.e., LLM domain keywords) and the can be expressed as follows.
other from the review texts (i.e., TF-IDF review keywords). The LLM
𝑄=𝐄𝐖𝑄, 𝐾=𝐄𝐖𝐾, 𝑉 =𝐄𝐖𝑉,
domain keywords are generated by GPT-4 using prompt engineering,
( )
which helps guide the model to produce relevant tourism-related key- 𝑄𝐾⊤
𝐀=softmax , (3)
words. GPT-4, a powerful large model with extensive public domain √ 𝑑
𝑘
knowledge, is capable of capturing essential knowledge in the tourism
𝐂=𝐀𝑉,
domain. Prompt engineering provides a clear direction on the type
of content to generate. The TF-IDF review keywords consist of the where 𝐖𝑄, 𝐖𝐾, and 𝐖𝑉 represent learnable parameter matrices.
top 100 high-frequency terms extracted from the review texts in the The self-attention mechanism assigns distinct weights to each word
dataset using the TF-IDF method. This technique, commonly applied in the input sequence, allowing the model to capture relationships
in information retrieval and text mining, is designed to identify key between words regardless of their positions in the sentence (Vaswani
4
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
et al., 2017). The key concept of self-attention is to compute the atten- where 𝑓(⋅) is forward propagation function of the DNN model, and
tion weight for each word, reflecting its importance, and then aggregate 𝜃 𝑡 denotes the model parameters for the target domain. By trans-
the information of the words based on these weights. This allows the ferring the learned ironic knowledge, the model can apply the ac-
model to focus on significant features while suppressing less relevant quired understanding of irony to recognize ironic sentiment in tourism
ones, effectively enhancing its ability to capture nuanced contextual reviews.
relationships. By incorporating self-attention, the model becomes more Through the use of transfer learning, the model can effectively trans-
sensitive to the sentiment nuances in the text, better capturing the fer ironic knowledge from the source domain, thereby improving the
subtle shifts in sentiment tendencies throughout the review. This re-
detection of ironic sentiment in the target domain—tourism reviews.
sults in a richer understanding of textual sentiment content, ultimately
This approach not only improves the performance of the model in
sentiment classification but also allows for more accurate detection of
improving sentiment classification performance.
irony, which is often challenging to identify using traditional sentiment
(3) Module 3∶ Irony-Aware Transfer Learning Module
analysis techniques.
The lack of sufficient contextual knowledge and specific domain
(4) Module 4∶ Sentiment Classification Module
information complicates the accurate detection of sentiment in ironic In the sentiment classification module, the feature representations
statements. Utilizing external sentiment knowledge is a highly effective of module 2 and module 3 are first combined using a concatenation
strategy for improving irony detection (Zhang et al., 2019). To capital- layer. The concatenated features are expressed as follows:
ize on the extensive ironic knowledge available in public resources and
enhance the model’s ability to identify and interpret irony, we apply
𝐇=Concat(𝐂;𝐓). (7)
transfer learning in this module to improve sentiment representation. Following this, a Dropout layer is applied to mitigate the risk of
Specifically, we adapt a Deep Neural Network (DNN) model, previously overfitting by randomly disabling connections in the network, which
trained on an irony dataset, to a tourism review dataset. Transfer helps enhance the generalization ability of the model. Afterward, the
learning, a machine learning technique, boosts model performance by concatenated features are fed into a linear layer to make the final
transferring knowledge gained from one task to a related task (Du et al., sentiment classification. The output from this layer is then passed
2013). The core idea behind transfer learning is to transfer annotated through the Sigmoid activation function, which normalizes the result
data or knowledge structures from the source domain to the target to a range between 0 and 1. This final output is represented as:
domain, thereby improving the learning effectiveness for the target
𝐇 =Dropout(𝐇),
𝑑
task (Pan & Yang, 2010). In our model, the source domain involves
𝐙=𝐇 𝐖 +𝐛,
the task of irony recognition using an irony dataset, whereas the target 𝑑 𝑙 𝑙 (8)
1
domain focuses on identifying the sentiment of ironic reviews within 𝑡̂=𝜎(𝐙)= .
1+𝑒−𝐙
tourism contexts. The transfer learning process involves transferring
model parameters between the source and target domains to improve
Here, 𝐖
𝑙
denotes the weight matrix of the linear layer, 𝐛
𝑙
represents the
performance in the target domain. The procedure is described in detail
bias term, and 𝑦̂ represents the final sentiment classification result. The
value of 𝑦̂ close to 1 indicates a higher likelihood of positive sentiment,
as follows.
while the value close to 0 signifies negative sentiment. The final output
Initially, a DNN model is trained on the source domain dataset, 𝐷 .
𝑠 is classified into specific sentiment categories, such as positive (1) or
A binary cross-entropy loss function, 𝐿 , is employed to optimize the
𝑠 negative (0).
model and derive the source domain model parameters, 𝜃 . The training
𝑠 (5) Model training
process can be expressed mathematically as:
For each tourism review, the true label 𝑡 and the predicted senti-
𝑗
ment result 𝑡̂ from the model are computed. The performance of the
𝜃 =argmin𝐿 (𝑓(𝐷 ;𝜃)). (4) 𝑗
𝑠
𝜃
𝑠 𝑠
model is assessed using the binary cross-entropy loss. The objective is
Here, 𝑓(⋅;𝜃) represents the model function of DNN and 𝜃 denotes the to minimize this loss by optimizing the model parameters. This can be
model parameters. The source domain dataset 𝐷 is a publicly available expressed mathematically as:
𝑠
irony dataset. The DNN model comprises an embedding layer, a pooling 𝑀
layer, three fully connected layers, two ReLU activations, two Dropout m 𝜙 in𝐽(𝜙)=− 𝑀 1 ∑[ 𝑡 𝑗 log(𝑡̂ 𝑗 )+(1−𝑡 𝑗 )log(1−𝑡̂ 𝑗 ) ] . (9)
layers, and a Sigmoid activation. Input text data is embedded into a 𝑗=1
vector space using GloVe embeddings. The loss function adopts binary 𝐽(𝜙) represents the loss function, which depends on model parameters
cross entropy loss  , given by: 𝜙. 𝑀 denotes the number of reviews. We perform model optimization
𝑠
using the Adam optimizer, a widely used adaptive learning rate method
𝑁
 =− 1 ∑ [(1−𝑧)⋅log(1−𝑝(𝑧))+𝑧 ⋅log(𝑝(𝑧))], (5) that efficiently updates the model parameters
𝑠 𝑁 𝑖 𝑖 𝑖 𝑖
𝑖=1
3.2. The proposed overall framework
where 𝑝(𝑧) represents the predicted probability for the 𝑖th item, 𝑧
𝑖 𝑖
represents the true label for the 𝑖th item, and 𝑁 represents the number
This section presents the overall framework for conducting the task.
of items. The model is trained using the Adam optimizer, which is a
The procedure is divided into three main stages: data preparation,
variant of stochastic gradient descent (SGD) that incorporates adaptive
data processing and model development, and model evaluation. The
moment estimation (Kingma, 2014). workflow of the proposed overall framework is depicted in Fig. 3,
We utilize the learned parameters to initialize the model for the providing a clear visualization of the model components and their
target domain after training the model on the source domain. The interactions.
dataset for the target domain is comprised of tourism reviews. The Step 1∶ Data preparation
source domain parameters, denoted as 𝜃 , are used to initialize the The initial step in the proposed overall framework consists of
𝑠
target domain model. Subsequently, the target model undergoes fine- preparing four datasets, which come from two primary sources: the
tuning with the target domain dataset. The fine-tuning procedure can public dataset and the LLM Irony Dataset.5 Sarcasm Corpus V26 is a
be expressed mathematically as follows:
𝐓=𝑓(𝐂;𝜃 𝑡 ), 5 https://github.com/252820/Tourism-Model/blob/master/data/irony.csv
(6)
𝜃 =𝜃 , 6 https://github.com/soraby/sarcasm2/tree/main/sarcasm_v2
𝑡 𝑠
5
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Fig. 3. Overall framework.
commonly used dataset for irony detection. It is utilized as the source
domain dataset for performing DNN transfer learning in Module 2.
TripAdvisor Reviews7 and Yelp Restaurant Reviews8 are commonly
utilized datasets for sentiment analysis within the tourism sector (Ali
et al., 2022; Xiang et al., 2017). [LLM Irony Dataset is a dataset
generated using LLM, aimed at alleviating the sparsity issue of ironic
reviews]. A comprehensive explanation of the dataset synthesis process
is outlined below. All datasets are publicly accessible and can be
obtained via the links provided in the footnotes.
Implicit sentiment conveyed through irony is challenging for tradi-
tional models, and ironic reviews are rare in available tourism datasets,
limiting sentiment analysis performance in this domain. To address this,
we used an LLM for data augmentation, generating additional ironic
reviews with negative sentiment to expand our dataset. Specifically,
we first manually selected 300 ironic sentences from 3000 negative-
Fig. 4. Data augmentation process.
sentiment reviews sourced from TripAdvisor and Yelp, forming a seed
sample pool 𝐷 . Using in-context learning, we repeatedly prompted
𝑝
the Qwen-Max LLM: in each iteration, two random seed samples were
Dataset, all labeled with negative sentiment. This approach signifi-
inserted into a fixed prompt template (see Fig. 4) to generate a new
cantly broadens the diversity of ironic expressions in our dataset and
ironic review. This process was repeated 5000 times, producing 5000
enhances the model’s ability to recognize implicit sentiment in tourism
candidate samples, mathematically expressed as:
reviews.
𝑆 𝑔 =LLM(prompt 𝑔 (𝑆 1 ,𝑆 2 )), (10) Step 2∶ Data processing and model preparation
Since the original datasets lack sentiment polarity labels, we man-
where 𝑆 ,𝑆 ∈𝐷 . After deduplication and manual quality screening,
1 2 𝑝
ually labeled the review texts for our experiments. Sentiment polarity
3000 high-quality ironic reviews were retained as our final LLM Irony
was treated as a binary classification task, where ‘‘0’’ indicates negative
sentiment and ‘‘1’’ indicates positive sentiment. Specifically, reviews
7 https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arnabchaki/tripadvisor-reviews-2023 rated 4 or 5 were labeled as positive (1), while those rated between 1
8 https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/farukalam/yelp-restaurant-reviews and 3 were categorized as negative (0). In most cases, a 3-point rating
6
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
indicates that the user perceives the service as merely meeting basic 4. Experiments
standards, failing to generate significant joy or satisfaction (Ali et al.,
2022; Li et al., 2024; Xiang et al., 2017). Such reviews often suggest The absence of large-scale, high-quality datasets hinders the model’s
that the service was mediocre, failing to leave a strong positive impres- ability to accurately detect sentiment (Guan et al., 2025a; Zhang et al.,
sion or enhance customer satisfaction. To encourage tourism service 2019). Transferring knowledge from one domain to another can lead
providers to deliver better experiences, increase customer satisfaction, to improved accuracy and outcomes (Celik et al., 2020). Utilizing
and improve the likelihood of repeat visits, we have conservatively domain-related information can enhance model performance (He et al.,
included reviews with a 3-point rating in the ‘‘negative’’ category. This 2025). Based on these theoretical foundations, the following research
binary labeling approach was chosen to simplify the sentiment analysis questions are presented for the experimental section.
process and facilitate more efficient model training. By adopting this
clear-cut classification method, we aimed to streamline the analysis • RQ1. How can LLM be effectively utilized to alleviate the issue
and improve the model’s capability to accurately distinguish between of ironic reviews sparsity?
positive and negative sentiments in tourism reviews. • RQ2. How does the TSI model enhance sentiment analysis over
Following the labeling process, several data cleaning procedures baselines?
were carried out to ensure the dataset’s quality and consistency. First, • RQ3. What is the effect of utilizing ironic knowledge available in
all numerical values were removed from the text to prevent any unin- the public domain?
tended influence on sentiment classification. Next, excess whitespace • RQ4. What is the effect of utilizing knowledge from the tourism
and unnecessary punctuation were eliminated to streamline the text field?
and improve processing efficiency. Common stopwords that do not
contribute significant meaning for sentiment analysis were filtered out. These four questions correspond to the three Views mentioned
All text was transformed to lowercase to standardize the data and in the introduction, i.e., they need to verify the motivation of our
reduce token variability. Each review was tokenized to facilitate more model design. To address these four questions, this section details the
efficient model processing and analysis. These preprocessing steps were experimental setup, presents the results of comparison experiments,
crucial for standardizing the data, minimizing noise, and improving the conducts an ablation study, and includes a case study to showcase the
efficiency and accuracy of subsequent tasks. After preprocessing, the practical effectiveness of the TSI model.
dataset was divided into training, validation, and test sets.
By following these rigorous preprocessing steps, we ensured that 4.1. Experimental setup
the dataset was well-prepared for training high-performing sentiment
analysis models, thereby enhancing their ability to accurately classify Machine learning models were implemented by constructing classi-
the sentiment of tourism reviews. Then we integrated domain knowl- fiers with the Scikit-Learn library in Python (Shoval et al., 2011), while
edge into the proposed model and used the prepared data to train and deep learning models were built using the PyTorch framework, known
fine-tune it. for its adaptability and efficiency in handling large-scale deep learning
Step 3∶ Model evaluation tasks. All experiments were conducted on an Nvidia 4090 GPU with
To assess the effectiveness of our approach, we utilized five com- 24 GB of VRAM, ensuring fast processing and efficient handling of large
monly recognized evaluation metrics: accuracy, precision, recall, F1- datasets and model computations.
score, and Negative Predictive Value (NPV). These metrics are com- For model comparison, we evaluated the following seven baseline
monly employed for evaluating machine learning models (Choi et al., models:
2020). These metrics are defined as follows:
𝑇𝑃+𝑇𝑁 • Naive Bayes. This probabilistic classifier, grounded in Bayes’
𝐴𝑐𝑐=
𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑃+𝑇𝑁+𝐹𝑁
, (11)
theorem, is commonly applied in sentiment analysis. For example, Al-
𝑇𝑃 muhaya et al. (2024) used polynomial Naive Bayes for sentiment
𝑃𝑟𝑒= 𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑃 , (12) analysis of Arabic tweets on Twitter, while (Charitha et al., 2023)
employed it for sentiment classification of IMDB movie reviews.
𝑇𝑃
𝑅𝑒𝑐= , (13) • LightGBM. As an efficient Gradient Boosting Decision Tree
𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑁
(GBDT) framework, LightGBM is frequently used for sentiment analysis
2×𝑃𝑟𝑒×𝑅𝑒𝑐
𝐹1= , (14) tasks. Khatun and Rabeya (2022) applied LightGBM to analyze Bangla-
𝑃𝑟𝑒+𝑅𝑒𝑐
language book reviews, categorizing them as positive or negative.
𝑇𝑁
𝑁𝑃𝑉 = . (15) • TextCNN. A deep learning model based on Convolutional Neu-
𝑇𝑁+𝐹𝑁
ral Networks, TextCNN, has shown effectiveness in text classification
In these equations, TP represents the number of positive reviews in
the gold-standard dataset that are correctly identified as positive, while
tasks (Kim, 2014). For example, Wang, Wang, et al. (2022) combined
TN denotes the number of negative reviews accurately classified as
Word2Vec embeddings with TextCNN to perform sentiment classifica-
negative. Conversely, FN refers to positive reviews mistakenly classified
tion on Weibo comments.
as negative, and FP signifies the reviews predicted as positive that are
• Bi-LSTM. This network architecture improves upon the tradi-
actually negative in the gold-standard dataset.
tional Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) model by processing data in
Higher values for accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and NPV both forward and backward directions, merging their outputs without
generally indicate better overall model performance (Bian et al., 2022). altering the internal structure of LSTM (Gao et al., 2024). Zhang and
We selected Naive Bayes, LightGBM, TextCNN, Bi-LSTM, W2C_RNN, Guo (2021) applied Bi-LSTM for sentiment analysis on product reviews
BERT, and GPT-4 as our baseline models. Each of these models serves from platforms like Taobao and JD.COM.
as a benchmark for evaluating the performance and efficacy of the TSI • W2C_RNN. This method combines Word2Vec embeddings with a
model. They cover a wide range of sentiment analysis techniques, from Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), offering a novel approach particu-
traditional machine learning methods like Naive Bayes and LightGBM larly suited for travel contexts. Ying and Yufan (2023) used W2C_RNN
to more sophisticated deep learning models such as TextCNN, Bi-LSTM, for sentiment analysis of travel reviews to support destination recom-
W2C_RNN, and BERT. This diverse set of baseline models provides mendations.
a comprehensive evaluation framework, allowing us to thoroughly • BERT. As a pre-trained NLP model, BERT (Devlin et al., 2019)
examine the performance and effectiveness of our proposed method has demonstrated outstanding performance across numerous NLP tasks.
across various evaluation metrics. By comparing our model against We included BERT as a baseline to determine whether performance
these varied approaches, we can better understand its strengths and improvements result from BERT’s capabilities or from the proposed
weaknesses in different contexts. methodology.
7
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Table 1
Experiment parameter settings.
Model Embedding dimension Dropout Epochs Optimizer Weight decay Learning rate Batch size
DNN 400 0.5 50 Adam 1e−5 1e−4 128
TSI 768 0.5 50 Adam 1e−4 1e−4 128
• GPT-4. Developed by OpenAI, GPT-4 is a large language model 4.2. Model evaluation
that utilizes a Mixture of Experts (MoE) architecture comprising ap-
proximately 1.76 trillion parameters. During a typical inference, around To further validate the contributions of each module in the TSI
220 billion of these parameters are activated. The model excels at model, we conducted a stepwise validation and an ablation study using
tasks involving text processing, complex semantic reasoning, and long- Yelp Restaurant Reviews and TripAdvisor Reviews.
context understanding. (1) Stepwise validation
To validate the model in a stepwise fashion, we outline and eval-
To ensure reliable and reproducible classification performance acr- uate three configurations. Detailed below are the specifics of each
oss all models, the following systematic procedure was adopted: configuration, which will guide our phased assessment of the model’s
effectiveness.
• Dataset Split. The dataset was divided into three distinct subsets:
60% of the samples were designated for training, 20% for validation, • I. The model incorporates Module 1 and Module 4.
and the remaining 20% for testing. This conventional division guar- • II. The model incorporates Module 1, Module 2, and Module 4.
antees that the model is assessed on unseen data, offering a reliable • III. The model incorporates Module 1, Module 2, Module 3, and
estimate of its generalization ability. Module 4.
• Optimizer and Hyperparameter Tuning. For optimization, the
Fig. 6 presents the results of the stepwise validation across the two
Adam optimizer was chosen due to its efficiency and adaptive learning
datasets, demonstrating the effectiveness of each module.
rate, which helps improve convergence in complex models. Hyper-
(2) Ablation study
parameters, including the learning rate, weight decay, and keyword
The ablation study provides answers to RQ3 and RQ4. The aim
weight parameter 𝑝, were tuned using grid search. This exhaustive
of this study was to evaluate the impact of the proposed modules —
search method tested different combinations of hyperparameter val-
specifically Module 1 (the tourism domain enhancement module) and
ues to identify the optimal configuration for each model. The opti-
Module 3 (the irony-aware transfer learning module) — on overall
mal parameter combinations and values that yielded the best perfor-
performance. Below, we outline the three configurations evaluated:
mance are documented in the source code, ensuring transparency and
reproducibility of the results. • TSI-KT. The full model without the irony-aware transfer learning
• Keyword Extraction. In the keyword weight adjustment process, module and the tourism domain enhancement module.
we utilized LLM to generate a total of 26 keywords, aimed at enhancing • TSI-T. The full model without the irony-aware transfer learning
the quality of feature representation for the sentiment analysis task. In module.
addition, we extracted another 100 high-frequency keywords using the • TSI. The complete model, including all modules.
traditional TF-IDF method.
• Early Stopping. To avoid overfitting and guarantee that the The outcomes of the ablation study for both datasets are presented
in Fig. 7.
model does not memorize the training data, we adopted an early
Fig. 7(a) illustrates the performance metrics for the Yelp Restaurant
stopping strategy. This approach tracks the model’s performance on
Reviews across the three model configurations. The results demon-
the validation set throughout training. If performance stagnates with-
strate that the TSI model consistently delivers the best performance
out significant improvement for five consecutive epochs, training is
across most metrics, clearly indicating the advantage of integrating
stopped. This approach helps conserve computational resources and
both the irony-aware transfer learning module and the tourism domain
prevents the model from learning noise in the data.
enhancement module. The TSI model achieves superior accuracy and
precision, suggesting that the inclusion of the irony-aware transfer
The experimental parameters are set as shown in Table 1.
learning module helps the model capture implicit irony patterns within
To solve RQ1, we used both GPT and Qwen-Max in the data
the dataset. The TSI-T model shows a relative improvement in recall.
augmentation process, combined with carefully designed prompts, to
This indicates that the tourism domain enhancement module positively
generate ironic reviews. Specifically, GPT was instructed to generate
impacts the model’s ability to identify tourism-related features.
multiple reviews in a single request based on the provided prompt.
Similarly, Fig. 7(b) presents the performance metrics for TripAdvi-
Conversely, Qwen-Max generated multiple reviews through several API
sor Reviews. The trends observed are almost consistent with those from
calls, incorporating random sampling into the prompt design. These
the Yelp Restaurant Reviews, with the TSI model outperforming both
two approaches resulted in noticeable differences in the outcomes of
TSI-T and TSI-KT in accuracy, precision, and F1-score. The TSI model
the generated reviews.
continues to show superior performance, confirming its robustness
As illustrated in Fig. 5, compared to GPT’s method of direct gener-
across different datasets. The TSI-T model shows improvements over
ation, Qwen’s strategy using random sampling produced significantly TSI-KT, particularly in accuracy and precision. This suggests that the
more effective reviews. Fig. 5 demonstrates the authenticity and at- tourism domain enhancement module significantly enhances feature
tractiveness of Qwen’s generated content, as well as its advantages in extraction and boosts the model’s capability to identify tourism-specific
creating engaging and realistic ironic comments. As observed, Qwen’s features. The TSI-KT model exhibits the lowest performance across
approach stands out for generating nuanced, diverse, and contextually most metrics, except for recall, reinforcing the conclusion that both
relevant content, frequently incorporating subtle details that enhance modules are essential for achieving optimal performance in sentiment
the engagement and realism of the reviews. In contrast, GPT’s direct classification.
outputs tend to be repetitive, lacking the contextual richness and The results from stepwise validation and ablation study clearly
diversity needed to produce compelling irony. This comparison high- demonstrate that both the irony-aware transfer learning module and
lights the clear advantages of adding randomness and variability when the tourism domain enhancement module contribute significantly to
augmenting samples with LLM. improving model performance. The TSI model, which incorporates both
8
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Fig. 5. Data augmentation comparison.
Fig. 6. Visualization of stepwise validation.
Fig. 7. Visualization of ablation study.
9
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Fig. 8. Result of negative predictive value (NPV).
Table 2 highlights that even without the irony-aware transfer learning module,
Experimental results. the TSI-T model remains a robust contender in sentiment classification.
Dataset Model Acc Pre Rec F1-score This underscores the strength of its underlying architecture, particu-
Yelp Restaurant Reviews LightGBM 0.8872 0.8951 0.9767 0.9341 larly the integration of knowledge from the tourism field. Overall, these
Naive Bayes 0.8780 0.8725 0.9747 0.9208 results confirm that the TSI model significantly enhances sentiment
TextCNN 0.9069 0.9196 0.9710 0.9446
Bi-LSTM 0.8184 0.8184 1.000 0.9001
classification performance. The inclusion of the irony-aware transfer
W2C_RNN 0.8803 0.9049 0.9540 0.9288 learning module is crucial, as it plays a key role in improving accuracy
BERT 0.8520 0.8504 0.9938 0.9165 and overall effectiveness. We have conducted paired t-tests comparing
GPT-4 0.8128 0.8186 0.9740 0.8896 the performance of TSI against the best baseline model (TextCNN)
TSI-T 0.9163 0.9276 0.9599 0.9434
TSI 0.9215 0.9335 0.9605 0.9468
across five independent runs using different random seeds. We report
p-values to assess whether TSI’s improvements over baselines are sta-
Tripadvisor Reviews LightGBM 0.8871 0.8956 0.9759 0.9340
Naive Bayes 0.8861 0.8850 0.9893 0.9343
tistically significant at 𝛼=0.05. Table 3 shows that the improvements
TextCNN 0.9031 0.9213 0.9507 0.9357 achieved by TSI are statistically significant, supporting the robustness
Bi-LSTM 0.7275 0.7275 1.0000 0.8423 of our model.
W2C_RNN 0.8947 0.8999 0.9803 0.9384 (2) Results of negative sentiment identification
BERT 0.8459 0.8442 0.9716 0.9034
GPT-4 0.8566 0.8720 0.9702 0.9185
To assess the model’s effectiveness in accurately detecting negative
TSI-T 0.9235 0.9381 0.9705 0.9540 sentiment, we focused on the NPV metric, which specifically evaluates
TSI 0.9285 0.9429 0.9715 0.9570 the model’s capability to correctly identify negative reviews. For com-
parison, we selected three representative models from the baseline: two
of the highest-performing baseline models and one ensemble learning
modules, shows superior generalizability and robustness across the two
model based on traditional machine learning techniques. We conducted
datasets. These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of integrating
the evaluation on three distinct datasets. The NPV metric was calcu-
domain-specific knowledge from the tourism industry with publicly
lated for each model on each dataset, and the results are presented in
available ironic knowledge. Moreover, they validate our design choices
Fig. 8.
and highlight the importance of combining domain-specific insights As illustrated in Fig. 8, the TSI model achieves the highest NPV
with the ability to detect implicit irony to achieve effective sentiment across all three datasets, outperforming the other four models. This
analysis. indicates that the TSI model excels in identifying negative sentiment,
as it maintains a higher proportion of true negatives (TN) over false
4.3. Experiment results and analysis negatives (FN) in relation to the total number of negative reviews in the
dataset. Essentially, the TSI model demonstrates a superior capability
We present the outcomes of two experimental studies: one focused to avoid misclassifying negative instances, which is crucial for appli-
on sentiment classification and the other on identifying negative sen- cations where correctly identifying negative sentiment is paramount.
timent. Each experiment evaluates the performance of the TSI model Moreover, the TSI model excels at detecting negative sentiment in
against baseline models. The results from these experiments provide ironic reviews, which are often challenging for traditional sentiment
answers to RQ2, RQ3, and RQ4. analysis models to classify accurately. The results on the LLM Irony
(1) Results of sentiment classification dataset further emphasize the TSI model’s strength in handling implicit
To assess the performance of our proposed model, specifically the and complex forms of negative sentiment, including irony. This demon-
TSI and its variant TSI-T, several experiments were conducted. The strates the impact of utilizing the ironic knowledge available in the
TSI-T model omits the irony-aware transfer learning module from the public domain.
TSI model, allowing us to examine the effect of ironic knowledge on The TSI-T model, while lacking the irony-aware transfer learning
sentiment classification. To increase the diversity of the training data, module, still performs well in negative sentiment identification. How-
Yelp Restaurant Reviews and TripAdvisor Reviews were respectively ever, its performance falls slightly short compared to the TSI model.
enhanced by a portion of the LLM Irony Dataset. The experiments were The TextCNN model lags behind TSI and TSI-T in terms of NPV,
evaluated using various performance metrics on these datasets. highlighting the importance of incorporating irony-specific knowledge
The experimental results, presented in Table 2, indicate that the TSI in the sentiment identification process. BiLSTM and LightGBM, which
model outperforms all other models on most evaluation metrics across are not specifically designed to handle irony, struggle to recognize it,
both datasets. Notably, the TSI model achieves accuracy exceeding 92% making it challenging for them to attain high NPV scores. In summary,
and F1-score exceeding 94%, demonstrating its high reliability and ef- the TSI model exhibits superior performance in accurately identifying
fectiveness in sentiment classification. The high F1-score demonstrates negative sentiment, particularly in the context of ironic reviews, where
the model’s capability to maintain a balanced performance between traditional models like BiLSTM and LightGBM may struggle. These
precision and recall, making it well-suited for sentiment analysis tasks. findings underscore the significance of integrating irony-aware mecha-
TSI-T model performs second-best in most metrics across both datasets, nisms into sentiment analysis systems to improve their effectiveness in
albeit slightly less effective than the TSI model. Its strong performance practical applications.
10
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Table 3
T-test.
Dataset Model Acc_1 Acc_2 Acc_3 Acc_4 Acc_5 T-statistic 𝑃-value
Yelp Restaurant Reviews TextCNN 0.9026 0.9043 0.9038 0.9048 0.9069 −24.15542778 0.00001742
TSI 0.9189 0.9215 0.9196 0.9203 0.9208 – –
Tripadvisor TextCNN 0.9031 0.9114 0.9113 0.9121 0.9123 −10.05141152 0.00055095
TSI 0.9285 0.9277 0.9280 0.9286 0.9283 – –
Fig. 9. Influence of hyperparameter 𝑝 on model performance.
4.4. Parameter sensitivity analysis Table 4
Hyperparameter table of TF-IDF.
To evaluate the sensitivity of TSI and TSI-T models to different hy- Top K Acc Pre Rec F1 Dataset
perparameters, we conducted an experiment using the Yelp Restaurant 50 0.9211 0.9335 0.9599 0.9465 Yelp
Reviews and Tripadvisor Reviews datasets. Specifically, we focused on 100 0.9215 0.9335 0.9605 0.9468 Yelp
analyzing the impact of the keyword weight parameter, denoted as
150 0.9211 0.9414 0.9507 0.956 Yelp
𝑝, on the performance of both models. The results are illustrated in
Fig. 9, which shows how variations in the hyperparameter 𝑝 affect
performance metrics. This provides answers to RQ4.
Fig. 9(a) illustrates how changes in the keyword weight parameter
increases, while the precision starts by increasing and then decreases.
(𝑝) influence the TSI model’s performance on Yelp Restaurant Reviews.
This pattern suggests that there exists an optimal range for 𝑝 that
As 𝑝 increases, accuracy, precision, and F1-score initially rise but then
maximizes the performance of the two models.
begin to decline. This suggests that there is an optimal range for
Overall, the analysis reveals that within a certain range, the TSI
𝑝 where the model performs best. In contrast, the recall follows a
model’s performance improves slightly with increasing 𝑝, while the TSI-
different pattern, decreasing initially and then increasing as 𝑝 grows.
T model performs progressively worse. These findings highlight the
The highest values for accuracy, precision, and F1-score occur when
importance of carefully tuning 𝑝 based on specific performance metrics
𝑝=0.5, although the recall is at its lowest during this period.
prioritized by each model, as the optimal setting of this hyperparameter
Fig. 9(b) illustrates the TSI-T model’s performance under the same
can vary depending on the model and dataset.
conditions. For TSI-T, as the keyword weight parameter 𝑝 increases, all Table 4 suggests that setting the hyperparameter of TF-IDF to 100
metrics show a general decline. The model performs best in accuracy, provides the best accuracy and recall, making it an optimal choice for
precision, F1-score, and recall when 𝑝 = 0.1, which indicates that a the Yelp dataset.
larger value for 𝑝 tends to depress its performance across all metrics.
The influence of varying 𝑝 on the performance metrics of both 4.5. Further exploration of fine-grained classification
models using the Tripadvisor Reviews is depicted in Figs. 9(c) and
9(d). As 𝑝 increases, the accuracy and F1-score for both models remain For further exploration of fine-grained classification, we conducted
relatively stable. The TSI model achieves its peak accuracy and F1- a detailed analysis of the 3-star reviews in the Yelp restaurant dataset.
score at 𝑝=0.3, whereas the TSI-T model reaches its highest values at In total, there are 2069 such reviews. We utilized Qwen2.5-72B to re-
𝑝=0.1. The recall for both models initially decreases and subsequently label these reviews, resulting in 691 neutral labels and 1378 negative
11
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Table 5 This case study clearly illustrates the strengths of the TSI model
Experimental results of 3-class. in recognizing nuanced sentiment in ironic reviews. While TextCNN
Dataset Model Acc Pre Rec F1-score struggles to detect negative sentiment in the presence of irony, often
Yelp Restaurant Reviews LightGBM 0.8598 0.5711 0.5347 0.5464 misclassifying it as positive, the TSI model excels in identifying these
Naive Bayes 0.8560 0.5989 0.5041 0.5280 implicit emotional cues. By effectively capturing both the overt and
TextCNN 0.8844 0.5751 0.5791 0.5766
Bi-LSTM 0.7502 0.4468 0.4015 0.4028
covert emotional signals in the text, the TSI model proves to be more
W2C_RNN 0.7526 0.4332 0.4494 0.4298 reliable for complex sentiment analysis tasks, particularly when dealing
BERT 0.8825 0.6727 0.7561 0.7004 with ironic language. These findings showcase the superior capability of
GPT-4 0.6728 0.5859 0.4027 0.3671 the TSI model to handle complex, multi-layered sentiment expressions,
TSI-T 0.9165 0.6002 0.6182 0.6090 making it highly suitable for real-world sentiment analysis tasks.
TSI 0.9225 0.6038 0.6261 0.6148
5. Conclusion and discussion
labels. To ensure accuracy, we manually reviewed and validated each High-quality sentiment analysis of tourism reviews is crucial for
annotation. This refined annotation process enables a more precise helping tourists make informed decisions when choosing travel ser-
evaluation of how different subsets of 3-star reviews affect model vices (Ali et al., 2022). This research introduces an innovative method
performance. Based on this newly annotated dataset, we performed a for improving sentiment analysis in tourism reviews, particularly in
three-class classification experiment, distinguishing between positive, detecting negative sentiment within ironic contexts. By incorporating
neutral, and negative sentiments. As presented in Table 5, the TSI tourism domain knowledge and irony-aware transfer learning, our
model still achieved the highest accuracy. However, due to the lim- method improves the detection of implicit sentiment cues, especially
ited number of neutral reviews, all models exhibited restricted ability those involving irony, which are often challenging to capture using
to learn distinguishing features for this class, resulting in relatively traditional sentiment analysis techniques.
low precision, recall, and F1-score. Therefore, in this context, binary We conducted extensive experiments using three tourism-related
classification is more appropriate than three-class classification. And datasets to validate the TSI model. The first experiment evaluated
the results of this experiment further support the effectiveness and the classification performance of various models in sentiment analysis,
robustness of our method under a fine-grained labeling scheme. where the TSI model achieved remarkable results, with over 92%
accuracy and an F1-score exceeding 94%. These outcomes confirm
4.6. Case study
the effectiveness of the TSI model in classifying tourism-related re-
views. The second experiment compared the proposed models with
three representative baseline models. Based on the NPV metric, TSI
To assess the ability of the TSI model to effectively recognize
demonstrated a superior ability to identify negative sentiment in ironic
sentiment in ironic reviews, we conducted a case study comparing the
reviews. The third experiment involved a parameter sensitivity analysis
performance of the TextCNN and TSI models. Specifically, we selected
for both TSI and TSI-T models, highlighting the importance of fine-
a set of five reviews in the real world, including four reviews containing
tuning the keyword weight parameter (𝑝). The fourth experiment was
irony and one general (non-ironic) review, to evaluate how each model
an ablation study that clearly demonstrated the significant performance
performs in identifying the sentiment of these texts. This selection
improvements achieved by combining the irony-aware transfer learning
aimed to assess how each model performs in identifying the sentiment
module and the tourism domain enhancement module. Lastly, the fifth
of these texts. Fig. 10 depicts the comparative results and provides
experiment was a case study comparing TSI with the leading baseline
answers to RQ2.
model, TextCNN. It highlighted TSI’s superior performance in accu-
TextCNN model’s predicted outcomes are displayed on the left side
rately identifying negative sentiment, especially in reviews containing
of Fig. 10. This model misclassifies all five reviews as positive (class
irony. In contrast, TextCNN showed a tendency to misclassify such
1), despite the fact that the reviews express negative sentiment. This
reviews as positive. This observation aligns with prior research (Sar-
misclassification suggests that TextCNN struggles to correctly identify
mento et al., 2009), which found that irony can influence a model’s
the emotional tone of reviews containing ironic expressions. Despite
classification performance. Our results further highlight the TSI model’s
the presence of clear negative sentiment in the text, TextCNN appears
robustness in recognizing negative feedback, especially in the presence
to rely heavily on surface-level features such as positive vocabulary,
of ironic expressions.
resulting in erroneous positive classifications. This highlights a key
Taken together, these experimental findings support the usefulness
limitation of TextCNN in dealing with the complex nuances of ironic
and reliability of the TSI model for sentiment analysis in the tourism
language, where the sentiment often contradicts the surface-level text
sector, particularly in detecting negative sentiment in ironic reviews.
features. Additionally, the TextCNN model incorrectly classified two
positive reviews as negative. This points to a potential opportunity for 5.1. Theoretical implications
improving the model’s accuracy in distinguishing between positive and
negative sentiments. Research on the influence of ironic reviews in sentiment analysis
In contrast, the right side of Fig. 10 displays the predicted results within the tourism industry remains scarce. Most existing frameworks
from the TSI model. Here, the TSI model successfully classified all re- concentrate on detecting explicit and direct emotional expressions in
views, underscoring its robust capability to detect sentiment accurately, online reviews (Li, Gao, & Song, 2023; Liu et al., 2019; Tokarchuk et al.,
even when faced with ironic reviews. Notably, in the fifth sentence of 2022), frequently overlooking the nuanced and implicit characteristics
the case study, which predominantly features positive vocabulary, the of irony. To address this limitation, this study introduces an innovative
TSI model accurately identifies the underlying negative sentiment. This approach designed to better capture the underlying emotions in ironic
outcome further emphasizes the TSI model’s robustness in handling reviews, thereby enhancing the depth and accuracy of sentiment anal-
complex and implicit sentiment expressions, where positive words may ysis in the tourism sector. Our model integrates advanced techniques
be used ironically to convey a negative sentiment. The TSI model’s such as domain adaptation, data augmentation, and irony modeling
enhanced performance underscores the importance of incorporating to improve sentiment classification, marking a significant advancement
irony-aware mechanisms. Such mechanisms are crucial for achieving over traditional methods that fail to adequately account for irony.
accurate sentiment analysis in contexts where traditional models might This research builds on and extends previous studies in several
fail due to their reliance on surface-level features. key ways. First, it advances the field of text sentiment recognition by
12
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Fig. 10. Sentiment analysis case.
proposing a refined model capable of distinguishing between ordinary influences sentiment analysis models and could lead to the develop-
and ironic travel reviews. The model enhances classification accuracy, ment of more sophisticated tools for analyzing emotional expression in
offering deeper insights into the interaction between irony and negative user-generated content.
sentiment in online reviews, a dynamic that has been underexplored in
5.2. Managerial implications
prior literature. Second, our study introduces a novel dataset containing
ironic travel reviews, which is pivotal in addressing the scarcity of
The proposed model, with its strong ability to accurately identify
annotated irony data within the tourism domain. This dataset is further
negative sentiment in ordinary and ironic travel reviews, offers several
enriched through an initial attempt to augment samples using large
key managerial implications for the tourism industry.
language models (LLMs), which serves as a stronger basis for future Firstly, the model can be embedded into smart tourism platforms
academic inquiry and applied practices in sentiment analysis. like Booking and Ctrip as a cloud-based API to analyze user reviews
Incorporating these advancements, our study contributes to the in real time. The boxed summary below highlights how TSI can be
growing dialogue around the intersection of emotion detection and
effectively integrated into smart tourism platforms to improve user
experience and business outcomes. We estimate that incorporating the
irony in sentiment analysis, which has remained an underdeveloped
model into existing smart tourism platforms will incur low computa-
area in tourism-related research. By bridging the gap between existing
tional overhead (with an inference time of approximately 0.5 s per
sentiment models and the complexities of irony detection, this work
review) while achieving a 94% improvement in review classification
opens new avenues for applying text mining and machine learning
accuracy. This can translate into higher customer trust and booking
techniques in tourism and other domains that require a nuanced under- precision. Early adopters of this irony-aware model could gain a com-
standing of complex emotional expressions, such as irony. Moreover, petitive edge by enhancing user experience and brand perception. Local
the findings may inspire further theoretical exploration into how irony tourism boards can also leverage TSI to detect subtle dissatisfaction
13
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
in visitor feedback that traditional sentiment models might overlook, cross-cultural sentiment expression and improve the adaptability of
enabling proactive service improvements. models like TSI for global tourism markets. Expanding the model to
multiple languages would also foster better cross-cultural understand-
Best Practice: Integrating TSI into Tourism Platforms
ing and enhance its international applicability. Second, integrating
textual models with visual and emoji-aware models (e.g., using CLIP
On product pages for hotels, car rentals, flights, etc., dynamic
or emoji embeddings) could significantly improve the detection of
sentiment polarity labels can be displayed (e.g., ‘‘93% of 450
nuanced or implicit sentiments, often conveyed through non-textual
reviews express positive sentiment’’), with warning tags added to
elements. Finally, by using user-level data to build personalized irony
ironic negative reviews (e.g., ‘‘Note: 22% of negative reviews may
detection systems and embedding them into platforms like TripAd-
contain irony’’). When users browse, they can filter services by
visor, real-time irony detection during feedback submission could be
sentiment intensity (e.g., ‘‘Show hotels with > 90% positive sen-
achieved. This would help promptly identify and escalate serious com-
timent’’). This approach goes beyond traditional rating systems,
plaints — especially ironic ones — thus improving response efficiency
providing travelers with instant, real-time emotional insights that and customer satisfaction on global tourism platforms.
can significantly enhance the decision-making process when book-
ing travel services, thereby increasing booking conversion rates. CRediT authorship contribution statement
By integrating sentiment analysis with product listings, travel
websites can offer customers more transparent and meaningful Wenhui Liu: (First Author) Writing – review & editing, Writ-
information, helping them avoid negative experiences and choose ing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Software,
services that best match their preferences. Resources, Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, For-
mal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Likang Wu: (Equal
Secondly, smart tourism platforms can use the model to imple- Contribution) Writing – review & editing, Validation, Supervision,
ment precision marketing strategies based on sentiment analysis. For Project administration, Methodology, Formal analysis, Conceptualiza-
instance, if an airline detects negative comments about baggage fees tion. Hongke Zhao: (Corresponding Author) Writing – review & edit-
(e.g., ‘‘Paying $50 for my luggage to arrive two days late—what an ing, Supervision, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization.
amazing experience!’’), it can automatically trigger targeted promotions
(e.g., discount coupons for baggage fees). This personalized approach
Declaration of competing interest
can help platforms attract customers more effectively and boost con-
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
version rates. TSI can also be integrated into recommendation systems
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
to improve customer satisfaction. Finally, the model’s ability to detect
influence the work reported in this paper.
negative ironic sentiment provides tourism platforms with a crucial
tool for addressing negative feedback promptly and effectively. For
Acknowledgments
example, when the platform identifies high-risk ironic negative reviews
(e.g., a restaurant review stating, ‘‘Perfect choice for food poisoning
This study was partially funded by the supports of National Natu-
enthusiasts!’’), it can flag these as priority cases and immediately esca-
ral Science Foundation of China (72471165, 72101176), Natural Sci-
late the risk alert to the customer service team, generating automated
ence Foundation of Tianjin (24JCQNJC01560) and Tianjin University
compensation suggestions (e.g., free meal voucher templates). By iden-
Independent Innovation Fund-Social Impact Project (2025XSC-0048).
tifying and addressing risky reviews in a timely manner, businesses
can reduce customer complaints, minimize customer churn, and pre-
References
vent booking losses. After implementing sentiment-based early warning
systems, the average complaint handling time for customer service Alaei, A. R., Becken, S., & Stantic, B. (2019). Sentiment analysis in tourism: capitalizing
teams can be significantly reduced, lowering labor costs. The model on big data. Journal of Travel Research, 58(2), 175–191. http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/
enables platforms to proactively identify emerging trends and potential 0047287517747753.
issues before customer feedback escalates, allowing for active customer
Ali,
A
A .,
n e
G
w
. Y
p
a
r
s
o
e
m
en
is
,
in
M
g
. ,
te
A
c
l
h
ja
n
n
i
a
q
b
u
i
e
,
s .
M
M
.,
e
A
so
b
p
e
o
d
t
,
a m
S.
ia
,
n
&
J
G
ou
P
r
T
n
,
a l
C .
o f
( 2
B
0
i
2
g
3 )
D
.
a
T
ta
ra
,
n
2
sf
0
e
2
r
3 ,
l ea
3
r
1
n
–
i
3
n
2
g:
.
relationship management and fostering a positive brand image. http://dx.doi.org/10.58496/MJBD/2023/004.
Ali, T., Omar, B., & Soulaimane, K. (2022). Analyzing tourism reviews using an LDA
5.3. Limitations and future research topic-based sentiment analysis approach. MethodsX, [ISSN: 2215-0161] 9, Article
101894. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mex.2022.101894.
Almuhaya, B., Saha, B., Kaur, M., Bazel, M. A., & Mohammed, R. (2024). Compar-
Although this study offers meaningful insights, it does have certain ative analysis of machine learning algorithms for Arabic sentiment analysis on
limitations that also open avenues for future research. A primary limi- imbalanced social media data. In 2024 ASU international conference in emerging
tation lies in the exclusive use of English review data, which constrains technologies for sustainability and intelligent systems (pp. 1362–1367). http://dx.doi.
the applicability of the findings across other languages and cultural org/10.1109/ICETSIS61505.2024.10459389.
An, H. w., & Moon, N. (2022). Design of recommendation system for tourist spot
settings. Sentiment expression varies across languages, and the absence
using sentiment analysis based on CNN-LSTM. Journal of Ambient Intelligence and
of multilingual analysis — especially for low-resource languages with Humanized Computing, 13(3), 1653–1663. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12652-019-
distinct irony and sentiment patterns — limits the model’s adaptability 01521-w.
to diverse global markets. Another limitation is that our model has Bajerski, M. (2016). ‘‘I understand you, so I’ll not hurt you with my irony’’: Cor-
relations between irony and emotional intelligence. Psychology of Language and
been trained and evaluated solely on textual data, without considering
Communication, 20, http://dx.doi.org/10.1515/plc-2016-0015.
multimodal elements like emojis or images. Integrating emojis and Balamurali, O., Sai, A. A., & Anand, S. (2024). Advancing tourism chatbots: Under-
exploring image-text fusion models could enhance the detection of standing irony, sarcasm, and negative emotions of users. In 2024 15th international
implicit sentiments, offering a more comprehensive understanding of conference on computing communication and networking technologies (pp. 1–7). http:
customer experiences. Additionally, while we utilize general-domain
Bian
/
,
/
Y
d
.
x
,
.d
Y
o
e
i
,
. o
R
r
.
g
,
/
Z
1
h
0
a
.1
n
1
g
0
,
9
J
/
.,
I C
&
C C
Y
N
an
T
,
6 1
X
0
.
0
(
1
2
.
0
2
2
0
2
2
)
4
.
.1
C
0
u
7
st
2
o
3
m
88
er
3 .
preference identification from
irony corpora for transfer learning, the effectiveness of such transfer hotel online reviews: A neural network based fine-grained sentiment analysis.
across high-context domains, such as tourism, remains limited. Certain Computers & Industrial Engineering, 172, Article 108648. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
forms of domain-specific irony may still be overlooked by the model. j.cie.2022.108648.
To address these limitations, future research could take several
Celik
in
,
v
Y
a
.
s
,
iv
T
e
a l
d
o
u
,
c
M
ta
.
l
,
c
Y
a
i
r
l
c
d
i
i
n
r
o
im
m
,
a
O
d
.
e
,
te
K
c
a
t
r
i
a
o
b
n
a
b
ta
a
k
se
,
d
M
u
.,
s i
&
ng
A
d
c
e
h
e
a
p
r y
tr
a
a
,
n
U
sf
.
e r
R .
l e
(
a
2
r
0
n
2
in
0
g
) .
w
A
it
u
h
t o
w
m
h
a
o
t
l
e
e
d
-
promising directions. First, incorporating multilingual data — such as
slide images. Pattern Recognition Letters, 133, 232–239. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
Chinese — into the analysis would enable a deeper understanding of j.patrec.2020.03.011.
14
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Chakravarthi, B. R., Soman, K., Ponnusamy, R., Kumaresan, P. K., Thamburaj, K. Jim, J. R., Talukder, M. A. R., Malakar, P., Kabir, M. M., Nur, K., & Mridha, M. F.
P., McCrae, J. P., et al. (2021). Dravidianmultimodality: A dataset for multi- (2024). Recent advancements and challenges of NLP-based sentiment analysis: A
modal sentiment analysis in tamil and malayalam. http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/ state-of-the-art review. Natural Language Processing Journal, Article 100059. http:
arXiv.2106.04853, arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.04853. //dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nlp.2024.100059.
Charitha, N. S. L. S., Yasaswi, K., Rakesh, V., Varun, M., Yeswanth, M., & Kiran, J. Joshi, A., Bhattacharyya, P., & Carman, M. J. (2017). Automatic sarcasm detection: A
S. (2023). Comparative study of algorithms for sentiment analysis on IMDB movie survey. ACM Computing Surveys, 50(5), 1–22. http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3124420.
reviews. In 2023 9th international conference on advanced computing and communica- Joshi, A., Sharma, V., & Bhattacharyya, P. (2015). Harnessing context incongruity for
tion systems: vol. 1, (pp. 824–828). http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICACCS57279.2023. sarcasm detection. In Proceedings of the 53rd annual meeting of the Association for
10113113. Computational Linguistics and the 7th international joint conference on natural language
Chen, K., Zhang, Z., Long, J., & Zhang, H. (2016). Turning from TF-IDF to TF-IGM for processing (volume 2: short papers) (pp. 757–762). http://dx.doi.org/10.3115/v1/
term weighting in text classification. Expert Systems with Applications, 66, 245–260. P15-2124.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.09.009. Kadli, P., & Vidyavathi, B. (2023). Cross domain hybrid feature fusion based sarcastic
Cheng, W., & Chen, S. (2021). Sentiment analysis of financial texts based on attention opinion recognition over E-commerce reviews using adversarial transfer learning.
mechanism of FinBERT and BiLSTM. In 2021 international conference on computer International Journal of Intelligent Engineering & Systems, 16(2), http://dx.doi.org/10.
engineering and application (pp. 73–78). http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICCEA53728. 22266/ijies2023.0430.13.
2021.00022. Ke, G., Meng, Q., Finley, T., Wang, T., Chen, W., Ma, W., Ye, Q., & Liu, T. Y. (2017).
Choi, J., Jeong, B., Yoon, J., Coh, B. Y., & Lee, J. M. (2020). A novel approach to Lightgbm: A highly efficient gradient boosting decision tree. Advances in Neural
evaluating the business potential of intellectual properties: A machine learning- Information Processing Systems, 30.
based predictive analysis of patent lifetime. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 145, Khatun, M. E., & Rabeya, T. (2022). A machine learning approach for sentiment analysis
Article 106544. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.106544. of book reviews in bangla language. In 2022 6th international conference on trends in
del Bosque, I. R., & Martín, H. S. (2008). Tourist satisfaction a cognitive-affective electronics and informatics (pp. 1178–1182). http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICOEI53556.
model. Annals of Tourism Research, 35(2), 551–573. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. 2022.9776752.
annals.2008.02.006. Kim, Y. (2014). Convolutional neural networks for sentence classification. In Proceedings
Devlin, J., Chang, M. W., Lee, K., & Toutanova, K. (2019). Bert: Pre-training of of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (pp.
deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In Proceedings of the 1746–1751). http://dx.doi.org/10.3115/v1/D14-1181.
2019 conference of the North American chapter of the Association for Computational
Kim, D., Seo, D., Cho, S., & Kang, P. (2019). Multi-co-training for document clas-
Linguistics: human language technologies, volume 1 (long and short papers) (pp.
sification using various document representations: TF–IDF, LDA, and Doc2Vec.
4171–4186). http://dx.doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1423.
Information Sciences, 477, 15–29. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2018.10.006.
Du,
t
B
a
.
r
,
g e
Z
t
h a
d
n
e
g
te
,
c
L
ti
.
o
,
n
T a
f
o
ro
,
m
D .,
h y
&
p e
Z
r
h
sp
a
e
n
c
g
t
,
r a
D
l
.
im
(2
a
0
g
1
e
3
s
)
.
.
N
U
e
n
u
s
r
u
o
p
co
er
m
v
p
is
u
e
ti
d
n g
t
,
r a
1
n
2
s
0
fe
,
r
7
l
2
ea
–
r
8
n
2
i
.
n g
h t
f
t
o
p
r
:
Kingma, D. P. (2014). Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1412.6980.
F
G
G
e
a
e
l
e
o
d
t
,
/
o
f
m
h
o
/
M
f
a
a
r
d
,
t
.
n
h
x
s
,
,
M
h
.
e
F
d
R
o
e
.
o
A
,
r
.
n
i
t
C
.
(
S
g
o
2
M
t
i
,
r
e
n
0
g
X
,
x
g
1
/
t
.
h
5
3
,
1
a
6
m
)
0
&
.
,
(
.
o
4
T
1
P
S
v
)
0
e
u
.
,
i
,
c
1
e
n
h
8
6
&
,
r
2
n
/
e
E
–
i
j
S
v
q
.
.
8
n
i
i
u
(
9
n
e
e
2
e
w
.
h
u
s
0
a
c
h
s
2
a
o
,
.
t
4
n
t
m
I
S
p
)
d
n
.
.
:
.
/
2
a
A
(
2
/
0
p
2
0
d
1
p
0
s
2
x
t
2
l
1
4
u
.
i
.
d
c
7
0
d
a
o
1
)
8
y
.
t
i
4
.
i
.
0
o
o
o
t
R
h
5
n
f
r
e
g
6
s
l
b
A
/
a
.
e
f
s
1
t
o
r
i
i
0
a
o
t
r
-
n
.
n
b
s
1
s
e
a
1
c
h
n
s
o
4
i
e
t
n
p
5
i
d
m
t
/
r
b
2
o
s
e
e
e
l
4
n
n
t
3
c
t
w
t
o
6
i
a
e
n
m
2
n
e
f
5
a
e
e
n
6
r
l
n
y
e
.
t
c
2
n
s
u
i
a
c
4
s
s
e
n
3
.
t
a
o
6
C
(
l
p
m
2
o
y
p
7
m
s
e
.
i
4
r
s
m
.
1
s
a
u
0
e
l
n
6
g
n
i
–
o
c
t
1
i
a
r
m
i
1
t
t
i
1
h
o
en
n
)
m
.
s
t
L
L
a
ee
d
,
h
A
1
e
a
Y
m
9
r
.
(
s
i
o
3
,
t
K
t
u
)
R
i
,
.
d
o
,
.
y
n
3
L
(
s
0
2
,
e
i
8
n
0
e
–
s
,
0
3
a
t
9
h
C
t
3
)
i
e
.
1
s
.
f
.
K
S
a
h
h
e
c
.
o
,
t
r
t
t
i
v
t
e
o
L
p
i
l
n
e
c
: /
e
e
,
i
/
n
,
d
q
a
d
S
x
u
n
u
.
.
a
d
s
d
l
K
t
o
i
r
t
.
l
y
i
y
,
o
.
.
o
,
y
&
r
a
M
e
g
l
m
/
t
B
a
y
1
o
n
a
.
0
a
t
b
i
.
g
i
o
J
1
n
i
o
n
n
1
,
u
a
g
0
r
B
l
8
n
S
.
s
/
a
e
a
0
l
J
r
t
v
9
.
i
o
i
s
6
c
(
f
f
0
e
a
2
4
c
0
B
Q
t
5
0
u
i
u
2
o
8
s
a
n
0
i
)
n
.
l
,
9
i
e
t
1
F
a
s
y
s
0
n
e
:
9
s
d
A
R
t
5
i
n
e
b
v
5
s
e
a
3
e
I
h
l
2
a
n
s
a
r
c
0
t
c
v
e
a
.
h
r
i
p
n
o
,
e
a
u
s
6
t
r
i
a
1
o
a
l
n
(
n
1
a
i
d
n
)
l
,
t
p
e
J
5
o
n
a
u
t
6
t
r
i
r
–
o
o
n
6
n
n
a
4
s
s
l
:
,
.
’
Gerr
a
6
ig
n
1
,
d
,
R
4
o
3
.
n
–
l
J
i
5
.
n
,
4
e
.
&
c
h
u
t
G
s
t
t
p
o
o
:
l
/
m
d
/
v
e
d
a
r
x
r
.
r
g
d
a
,
o
ti
i
Y
n
.o
.
g
r
s
(
g
2
f
/
o
0
1
r
0
0
0
h
.1
)
o
.
0
t e
1
A
l
6
s
d
/
d
-
j .
i
A
t
t
o
i
n
v
u
e
r
e
m
m
e
a
f
p
f
n
i
e
r
.
c
2
ic
t
0
s
a
1
l
i
6
a
n
.
n
1
a
t
2
h
l
.
y
0
e
s
2
i
p
s
2
.
e
.
r
T
c
o
e
u
p
r
t
i
i
s
o
m
n
M
o
a
f
n
s
a
a
g
r
e
c
m
a
e
sm
nt
:
,
Li, H
h
an
t
.,
t
a
p
l
G
:
y
/
s
a
/
i
o
d
s.
,
x .
A
d
H
o
n
.,
i
n
.
a
o
&
l
r
s
g /
S
o
1
o
f
0
n
.
T
g
1
o
,
0
u
1
H
r
6
is
.
/
m
j
(
. j
2
b
R
0
u
e
2
s
s
3
r
e
e
a
).
s
r
.
c
2
T
h
0
,
o
0
u
1
6
r
0
.
i
0
s
3
m
5
,
. 0
A
f
0
r
o
9
t
r
i
.
e
c
c
le
a st
1
i
0
n
3
g
6 6
w
7
i
.
t h
h t
g
tp
ra
:/
n
/
u
d
la
x
r
.d o
se
i.
n
o
t
r
i
g
m
/1
en
0
t
.
Situational disparity and echoic mention. Metaphor and Symbol, 15(4), 197–208.
Li, J
1
.,
0
H
16
u
/
a
j
n
.a
g
n
,
n
Y
a
.,
l s
L
.2
u
0
,
2
Y
3
.,
. 1
W
03
a
6
n
6
g
7
,
.
L., Ren, Y., & Chen, R. (2024). Sentiment analysis using
Gold
h
r
i
e
n
t
g
t
,
p
u
P
:
l
/
a
.
/
t
R
d
io
.
x
,
n
.d
M
:
o
r
c
i
e
R
.o
a
a
r
p
e
g
p
,
/
r
1
K
a
0
i
.
s
,
.
a
1
R
l
2
a
0
a
m
7
n
e
/
d
l
S
,
1
s
W
u
5
p
3
.,
p
2
r
&
7
e
8
s
G
6
si
r
8
o
o
M
n
ss
S
,
o
1
f
J
5
.
n
0
J
e
4
.
g
_
(
1
a
2
.
t
0
iv
0
e
8 )
e
.
m
T
o
h
t
e
i o
n
n
e
.
u
B
ra
io
l
l
b
og
a
i
s
c
e
a
s
l
o
P
f
s y
e
c
m
h
o
ia
t
t
i
r
o
y
n
,
E
ba
-c
s
o
e
m
d
m
m
e
o
r
d
c
e
e
l .
re
C
v
o
i
m
ew
pu t
k
er
e
s
y
,
w
M
o
a
rd
te
-
r
g
i
e
a
n
ls
e r
a
a
n
t
d
e d
C o
im
nt
a
in
g
u
e
a ,
w
8
i
0
th
(1 )
a
, 1
h
5
y
8
br
1
i
–
d
1 5
m
9
a
9
c
.
h
h
in
tt
e
p :/
le
/
a
d
r
x
n
.
i
d
n
o
g
i
-
.
63(6), 577–586. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2007.05.031.
org/10.32604/cmc.2024.052666.
G
G
o
u
o
an
s
R
s
,
e
e
s
X
n
e
s
.
a
,
,
r
C
c
C
h
a
.
,
o
(
2
,
2
7
J
0
(
.
0
,
2
0
)
Z
)
,
h
.
3
a
T
0
n
o
1
g
u
–
,
r
3
H
i
2
sm
.
1
,
.
C
i
h
n
a
t
o
f
t
o
p
,
r
:
B
m
/
.
/
,
a
d
t
&
x
io
. d
n
L
o
iu
i
a
.
,
n
o r
d
B
g
.
/
p
(
1
l
2
e
0
0
a
.1
s
2
u
0
5
r
1
)
e
.
6 /
M
m
S
I
o
0
A
t
1
i
N
v
6
:
a
0
t
-
M
i
7
o
3
u
n
8
l
.
t
3
i
A
-
(
h
9
n
e
9
n
a
)
a
d
0
l s
0
i
0
n
o
6
c
f
o
7
T
n
-
o
5
g
u
.
r
r
u
i
i
s
t
m
y
Li, R
m
h
.
e
,
i
t
n
e
i
L
r
n
i
o
,
g
g e
Y
o
n
.
f
e i
Q
o
ty
n
.,
l
a
in
R
n
e
d
u a
i
r
n
t
e
s
,
v
i
i
W
n
ew
f
.
l u
s
e
Q
n
o
.
c
,
f
in
Z
p
g
e
h
e
a
f
r
a
n
-
c
g
to
t
,
o
-p
r
S
s
e
.
.
e
T
r
N
o
.
a
u
,
c
ri
c
&
s
o
m
m
W
M
m
a
a
o
n
n
d
g
a
a
,
g
ti
e
M
o
m
n
.
e
s
n
:
Y
t,
.
C
9
u
(
6
s
2
,
t
0
o
A
2
m
r
3
t
e
)
i
r
.
c le
S
e m
e
1
n
o
0
t
t
i
4
m
i
7
o
0
e
n
n
4
a
t
l
.
aware attention network with transfer learning for sarcasm detection. Expert
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2022.104704.
Systems with Applications, 263, Article 125702. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.
Li, H., Yu, B. X., Li, G., & Gao, H. (2023). Restaurant survival prediction using
customer-generated content: An aspect-based sentiment analysis of online reviews.
2024.125702.
Guan, X., Cao, J., Zhang, H., Cao, B., & Liu, B. (2025). MIAN: Multi-head incongruity
Tourism Management, 96, Article 104707. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.
aware attention network with transfer learning for sarcasm detection. Expert Systems
2022.104707.
with Applications, [ISSN: 0957-4174] 263, Article 125702. http://dx.doi.org/10. Liang, Y., Meng, F., Zhang, J., Chen, Y., Xu, J., & Zhou, J. (2021). An iterative multi-
1016/j.eswa.2024.125702. knowledge transfer network for aspect-based sentiment analysis. In Findings of the
Guo, X., Li, B., Yu, H., & Miao, C. (2021). Latent-optimized adversarial neural transfer
Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021 (pp. 1768–1780). Association
for sarcasm detection. In Proceedings of the 2021 conference of the North American
for Computational Linguistics, http://dx.doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.findings-emnlp.
chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: human language technologies
152.
(pp. 5394–5407). http://dx.doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.425. Liu, Y., Huang, K., Bao, J., & Chen, K. (2019). Listen to the voices from home: An
Han, H., & Jeong, C. (2013). Multi-dimensions of patrons’ emotional experiences in analysis of Chinese tourists’ sentiments regarding Australian destinations. Tourism
upscale restaurants and their role in loyalty formation: Emotion scale improvement. Management, 71, 337–347. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2018.10.004.
International Journal of Hospitality Management, 32, 59–70. http://dx.doi.org/10. Lujun, S., Yang, Q., Swanson, S., & Chen, N. (2021). The impact of online reviews
1016/j.ijhm.2012.04.004. on destination trust and travel intention: The moderating role of online review
He, Y., Feng, J., Ding, G., Guo, Y., & He, T. (2025). Domain knowledge boosted trustworthiness. Journal of Vacation Marketing, 28, Article 135676672110632. http:
adaptation: Leveraging vision-language models for multi-source domain adaptation. //dx.doi.org/10.1177/13567667211063207.
Neurocomputing, 619, Article 129114. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2024. Maital, S. (1999). ‘‘The experience economy: Work is theatre & every business a stage"
129114. by B. Joseph Pine II and James H. Gilmore (Book Review). Sloan Management
Hosany, S., Hunter-Jones, P., & McCabe, S. (2020). Emotions in tourist experiences: Review, 40(4), 93.
Advancing our conceptual, methodological and empirical understanding. Journal Naseem, U., Razzak, I., Musial, K., & Imran, M. (2020). Transformer based deep
of Destination Marketing & Management, 16, Article 100444. http://dx.doi.org/10. intelligent contextual embedding for Twitter sentiment analysis. Future Generation
1016/j.jdmm.2020.100444. Computer Systems, 113, 58–69. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2020.06.050.
Hu, X., & Liu, H. (2012). Text analytics in social media. In C. C. Aggarwal, & Neidhardt, J., Rümmele, N., & Werthner, H. (2017). Predicting happiness: user inter-
C. Zhai (Eds.), Mining text data (pp. 385–414). Boston, MA: Springer US, http: actions and sentiment analysis in an online travel forum. Information Technology &
//dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-3223-4_12. Tourism, 17, 101–119. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s40558-017-0079-2.
Ivanko, S. L., & Pexman, P. M. (2003). Context incongruity and irony processing. Pan, S. J., & Yang, Q. (2010). A survey on transfer learning. IEEE Transactions on
Discourse Processes, 35(3), 241–279. http://dx.doi.org/10.1207/S15326950DP3503_ Knowledge and Data Engineering, 22(10), 1345–1359. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
2. TKDE.2009.191.
Jain, P. K., Pamula, R., & Yekun, E. A. (2022). A multi-label ensemble predicting model Pang, B., & Lee, L. (2008). Opinion mining and sentiment analysis. Foundations
to service recommendation from social media contents. Journal of Supercomputing, and Trends® in Information Retrieval, 2(1–2), 1–135. http://dx.doi.org/10.1561/
78(4), 5203–5220. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11227-021-04087-7. 1500000011.
15
W. Liu et al. Tourism Management 112 (2026) 105272
Paolanti, M., Mancini, A., Frontoni, E., Felicetti, A., Marinelli, L., Marcheggiani, E., Wankhade, M., Rao, A. C. S., & Kulkarni, C. (2022). A survey on sentiment anal-
& Pierdicca, R. (2021). Tourism destination management using sentiment analysis ysis methods, applications, and challenges. Artificial Intelligence Review, 55(7),
and geo-location information: a deep learning approach. Information Technology & 5731–5780. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10462-022-10144-1.
Tourism, 23, 241–264. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s40558-021-00196-4. Xiang, Z., Du, Q., Ma, Y., & Fan, W. (2017). A comparative analysis of major online
Papapicco, C., & Mininni, G. (2020). Twitter culture: irony comes faster than tourist review platforms: Implications for social media analytics in hospitality and tourism.
mobility. Journal of Tourism and Cultural Change, 18(5), 545–556. http://dx.doi. Tourism Management, 58, 51–65. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2016.10.001.
org/10.1080/14766825.2019.1611839. Xu, Q. A., Chang, V., & Jayne, C. (2022). A systematic review of social media-based
Polyzos, E., Fotiadis, A., & Huan, T. C. (2023). From heroes to scoundrels: Exploring the sentiment analysis: Emerging trends and challenges. Decision Analytics Journal, 3,
effects of online campaigns celebrating frontline workers on COVID-19 outcomes. Article 100073. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.dajour.2022.100073.
Technology in Society, 72, Article 102198. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2023. Ying, W., & Yufan, H. (2023). Research on sentiment analysis of travel reviews based on
102198. Word2Vec and RNN. In 2023 IEEE international conference on electrical, automation
Polyzos, E., Fotiadis, A., & Huan, T. C. (2024). The asymmetric impact of Twitter and computer engineering (pp. 133–137). http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICEACE60673.
sentiment and emotions: Impulse response analysis on European tourism firms using 2023.10442629.
micro-data. Tourism Management, 104, Article 104909. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/ Yoon, Y., & Uysal, M. (2005). An examination of the effects of motivation and
j.tourman.2024.104909. satisfaction on destination loyalty: a structural model. Tourism Management, 26(1),
Prayag, G., Hosany, S., & Odeh, K. (2013). The role of tourists’ emotional experiences 45–56. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2003.08.016.
and satisfaction in understanding behavioral intentions. Journal of Destination Yuksel, A., Yuksel, F., & Bilim, Y. (2010). Destination attachment: Effects on customer
Marketing & Management, 2(2), 118–127. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jdmm.2013. satisfaction and cognitive, affective and conative loyalty. Tourism Management,
05.001. 31(2), 274–284. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2009.03.007.
Pu, X., Wu, G., & Yuan, C. (2019). Exploring overall opinions for document level Zhang, T., & Guo, J. (2021). Research on Chinese sentiment analysis based on bi-
sentiment classification with structural SVM. Multimedia Systems, 25, 21–33. http: LSTM networks. In 2021 IEEE/aCIS 20th international fall conference on computer and
//dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00530-017-0550-0. information science (pp. 198–203). http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICISFall51598.2021.
Ray, B., Garain, A., & Sarkar, R. (2021). An ensemble-based hotel recommender system 9627460.
using sentiment analysis and aspect categorization of hotel reviews. Applied Soft Zhang, S., Zhang, X., Chan, J., & Rosso, P. (2019). Irony detection via sentiment-
Computing, 98, Article 106935. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2020.106935. based transfer learning. Information Processing & Management, 56(5), 1633–1644.
Rialp-Criado, A., Rialp-Criado, J., et al. (2018). Examining the impact of managerial http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.04.006.
involvement with social media on exporting firm performance. International Business
Review, 27(2), 355–366. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ibusrev.2017.09.003.
Sarmento, L., Carvalho, P., Silva, M. J., & De Oliveira, E. (2009). Automatic creation
of a reference corpus for political opinion mining in user-generated content. In Wenhui Liu is currently a graduate student majoring in
Proceedings of the 1st international CIKM workshop on topic-sentiment analysis for Management Science and Engineering at the School of Man-
mass opinion (pp. 29–36). http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1651461.1651468. agement and Economics, Tianjin University. She graduated
Sharma, A., Adhikary, A., & Borah, S. B. (2020). Covid-19’s impact on supply chain from the School of Management and Economics at Tianjin
decisions: Strategic insights from NASDAQ 100 firms using Twitter data. Journal of University in 2023 with a Bachelor’s degree in Management,
Business Research, 117, 443–449. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.05.035. majoring in Confidentiality Management. Her research inter-
Sharma, A., Park, S., & Nicolau, J. L. (2020). Testing loss aversion and diminishing ests include data mining and machine learning, text analysis,
sensitivity in review sentiment. Tourism Management, 77, Article 104020. http: and the application of large language models.
//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2019.104020.
Shoval, N., McKercher, B., Ng, E., & Birenboim, A. (2011). Hotel location and tourist
activity in cities. Annals of Tourism Research, 38(4), 1594–1612. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/j.annals.2011.02.007.
Sousa, M. G., Sakiyama, K., de Souza Rodrigues, L., Moraes, P. H., Fernandes, E. R., & Dr. Likang Wu is a lecturer/assistant professor of the Col-
Matsubara, E. T. (2019). BERT for stock market sentiment analysis. In 2019 IEEE lege of Management and Economics at Tianjin University,
31st international conference on tools with artificial intelligence (pp. 1597–1601). IEEE, China. He received his Ph.D. degree from University of
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICTAI.2019.00231. Science and Technology of China (USTC) in 2024. His
Su, J., Shirab, J. S., & Matwin, S. (2011). Large scale text classification using research interests are in the broad areas of Data Mining
semi-supervised multinomial naive bayes. In Proceedings of the 28th international and Artificial Intelligence, with a particular focus on Large
conference on machine learning (pp. 97–104). Language Models and Decision Systems. He has published
Tian, Y. X., & Zhang, C. (2023). An end-to-end deep learning model for solving data- innovative papers in top-tier journals and conferences such
driven newsvendor problem with accessibility to textual review data. International as DSS, TKDE, TKDD, Pattern Recognition, IP&M, KDD,
Journal of Production Economics, 265, Article 109016. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. WWW, AAAI, IJCAI, SIGIR, EMNLP, and CIKM. He serves
ijpe.2023.109016. as top-tier conference program committee members (e.g.,
Tokarchuk, O., Barr, J. C., & Cozzio, C. (2022). How much is too much? Es- ICLR, NeurIPS, KDD, WWW, AAAI, IJCAI, SIGIR, etc.), and
timating tourism carrying capacity in urban context using sentiment analysis. journal reviewers (e.g., IJOC, IP&M, TPAMI, TKDE, TMC,
Tourism Management, 91, Article 104522. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman. TKDD, TOIS, TNNLS, etc.).
2022.104522.
T
T
V
W
s
u
a
a
a
r
s
n
i
n
w
,
o
8
s
2
&
i
p
o
g
e
n
e
a
f
n
C
0
1
o
,
y
t
m
n
e
s
l
,
(
.
,
P
T
i
4
t
Z
r
i
n
a
F
A
s
,
o
n
o
P
)
.
n
e
.
,
u
,
a
l
r
A
.
,
o
o
t
t
r
t
3
i
n
.
h
i
C
H
i
s
i
D
c
,
c
o
s
u
1
o
h
m
l
u
n
.
t
S
5
k
e
t
,
e
r
o
a
a
e
h
h
–
a
n
r
n
l
&
l
1
R
a
3
i
v
i
,
g
n
e
z
0
c
e
r
4
e
K
,
o
e
n
,
L
e
s
4
l
6
e
e
n
.
v
t
i
1
.
,
W
d
t
a
a
I
r
f
i
t
2
.
e
,
e
t
r
e
H
h
m
.
i
r
c
2
w
c
N
o
t
e
(
u
h
.
i
t
a
2
n
n
J
s
s
,
p
.
n
,
h
i
0
.
c
E
:
Y
o
,
w
,
e
/
t
1
P
f
m
n
t
.
r
/
7
M
&
i
a
p
o
o
s
t
d
p
H
r
)
:
:
h
n
m
i
.
x
/
.
m
r
.
L
A
,
/
.
i
n
L
r
d
c
a
A
i
d
&
e
u
a
e
a
.
o
r
c
x
t
v
u
s
,
l
-
i
t
o
(
.
L
C
s
i
.
r
e
d
2
N
o
e
m
o
I
a
a
h
n
n
o
0
w
r
c
l
s
.
e
t
p
s
g
,
i
0
t
i
i
.
i
i
n
a
a
r
/
o
g
o
n
3
U
h
e
t
,
r
1
h
n
r
f
)
i
e
s
a
s
o
g
0
t
W
o
.
,
z
l
s
t
r
/
p
.
n
i
,
k
i
m
M
1
.
v
1
s
B
f
.
o
1
u
3
e
K
0
a
.
e
r
4
A
(
l
a
t
.
e
a
.
n
s
2
i
1
(
5
l
C
i
o
s
t
(
l
e
2
)
t
0
u
/
u
n
2
M
,
,
s
0
1
9
r
d
0
s
y
J
i
2
6
A
p
4
y
o
2
n
.
a
2
r
/
T
4
,
r
u
0
g
o
n
j
o
)
t
r
0
J
)
.
c
i
.
a
d
n
t
c
.
1
o
p
e
n
o
n
l
s
2
I
n
I
r
e
e
u
W
s
s
s
m
m
a
.
e
e
a
e
i
r
9
i
n
s
n
1
m
e
d
p
c
p
s
4
,
g
t
e
i
0
t
a
.
r
i
4
b
a
i
L
o
o
c
0
s
m
n
o
0
a
I
.
n
v
t
y
0
,
n
.
1
n
e
s
s
i
2
6
a
n
t
G
o
3
n
d
e
0
n
4
g
o
P
f
.
t
o
m
2
.
d
.
n
r
c
m
t
0
s
u
o
r
e
h
T
X
i
c
.
s
e
I
x
t
(
t
1
o
e
n
e
i
z
t
i
p
t
u
a
0
e
c
r
p
f
,
p
o
d
o
r
-
s
i
4
:
g
A
i
s
u
.
/
r
i
h
s
1
n
m
m
e
/
m
m
.
o
6
2
g
n
d
a
:
n
N
0
s
2
m
e
x
t
M
g
0
.
I
r
.
i
.
,
o
a
n
o
s
d
a
0
a
h
n
r
f
f
t
o
K
–
n
e
i
e
u
6
i
z
a
r
a
d
t
.
.
S
a
0
h
e
o
i
g
s
y
t
A
n
e
1
r
e
e
i
t
s
g
m
o
c
0
r
n
t
r
/
e
e
a
3
n
,
)
n
e
m
1
.
v
1
a
n
L
o
o
0
e
s
s
l
t
.
s
f
f
t
l
.
,
,
,
D
v
C
a
i
h
c
I
K
l
S
D
u
n
N
o
g
y
e
a
h
n
a
r
t
t
n
r
e
s
F
s
.
i
t
o
i
e
s
t
n
o
m
a
f
O
r
w
p
e
i
H
e
n
,
a
e
t
m
R
u
e
r
y
l
.
s
a
o
I
e
e
n
b
M
t
E
r
s
H
n
n
d
o
t
l
y
,
E
i
c
S
i
g
g
e
f
s
n
E
e
A
a
e
k
h
C
c
S
i
n
C
e
e
s
J
l
a
T
o
p
c
d
u
d
o
M
n
i
m
a
r
r
Z
e
d
u
o
a
d
n
m
n
h
E
e
p
r
n
c
T
n
c
s
D
a
c
u
e
a
o
s
e
r
o
a
a
e
o
s
t
r
a
a
d
a
s
l
n
e
d
c
t
a
n
o
a
t
t
a
r
o
i
i
t
n
i
s
n
c
e
t
o
o
m
o
h
a
a
E
i
d
c
g
n
n
a
n
a
c
e
n
i
s
t
,
n
s
t
c
m
i
,
T
g
e
i
v
s
C
o
e
i
A
o
1
s
,
i
e
n
p
o
n
n
c
u
n
0
d
C
e
r
h
m
T
s
i
c
0
o
M
n
e
n
h
S
i
t
p
f
r
a
o
g
h
p
y
o
e
i
u
n
,
n
n
a
e
s
a
l
s
T
o
t
j
t
s
s
g
p
i
a
i
e
r
o
P
g
K
n
n
,
e
a
l
m
D
r
y
h
g
n
g
r
I
n
E
s
o
e
.
s
,
U
w
o
s
D
o
,
c
E
r
a
w
i
n
i
f
i
i
n
.
I
E
c
M
t
t
s
i
E
l
h
h
t
i
d
C
v
e
r
i
o
E
T
a
m
e
e
d
e
o
h
t
n
n
E
r
r
f
g
h
g
n
i
a
e
s
,
n
r
e
e
s
n
i
m
S
r
e
a
a
t
T
e
u
s
e
y
C
n
D
o
a
e
a
r
p
.
(
o
a
d
n
n
d
c
i
f
U
p
s
l
n
r
t
a
H
l
c
o
o
j
i
S
C
s
e
g
I
o
o
o
i
r
m
T
a
n
g
y
e
s
u
n
t
v
c
f
C
e
m
b
r
s
o
e
t
S
)
e
t
n
r
i
r
r
o
e
o
h
,
o
e
y
r
y
a
m
n
f
n
n
s
e
n
s
l
H
e
t
t
s
e
M
a
s
f
.
e
E
a
U
e
t
r
t
a
m
i
r
i
f
a
o
v
H
n
c
n
o
o
e
c
n
o
m
s
s
i
i
h
n
n
d
e
-
-
-
:
,
,
Wan
1
o
c
g
o
f
0
,
m
1
Z
w
6
p
.
e
,
u
/
i
t
j
W
b
.
e
a
o
r
a
n
n
n
n
c
g
o
e
a
,
t
m
l
w
e
M
.
m
o
2
.
r
,
0
e
k
n
2
S
,
h
t
2
s
e
e
.
l
1
n
e
b
0
c
,
a
t
0
s
H
r
0
e
o
.
6
d
n
,
4
i
&
c
o
.
n
H
a n
a
T
d
n
e
,
x
a
t
Y
u
C
.
t
N
o
(
m
N
20
a
2
m
ti
2
o
o
)
n
d
.
e
A
(
l
p
.
p
p
p
I
.
n
l i c
2
2
a
2
0
t
3
i
2
o
–
2
n
2 2
i
o
n
8
f
t
)
e
s
.
r
e
n
n
h
a
t
t
t
i
t
i
m
p
on
:
e
/
a
n
/
l
t
d
c
x
c
o
.
l
d
n
a
o
s
fe
s
i
r
i
.
f
o
e
i
n
r
c
g
c
a
e
/
t i
1
o
o
0
n
n
.
S
S
W
y
IG
W
st
K
e
W
D
m
D
s
a
,
,
n
A
d
A
C
C
I
M
E
M
E
W
E
T
S
I
r
C
D
a
D
M
n
M
s
,
a
A
.
ct
C
io
M
n s
S IG
o
I
n
R ,
t
A
h
C
e
M
W
C
e
I
b
K
,
M
O
, I
m
JC
eg
A
a
I,
,
A
A
A
C
A
M
I,
1109/ICCNEA57056.2022.00057.
16