This is the Pre-Published Version.
This is the accepted version of the publication Yang, T., & Hsu, C. H. C. (2026). Integrating Community Ambivalence into Resident Sentiment
Research. Journal of Travel Research, 65(2), 311-334. Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). DOI: 10.1177/00472875251366433.
Integrating community ambivalence into resident sentiment
research
Abstract. Resident sentiment and its ambivalence play important roles in maintaining the
social sustainability of tourism development. The recent phenomenon of resident-tourist
conflicts in some destinations clearly indicates problematic levels of resident sentiment and
often reflects certain degrees of community ambivalence. Investigating resident sentiment in
synthesis with community-level ambivalence can provide a nuanced understanding of the
diversity of resident sentiments. This study conducts a systematic review of relevant literature,
constructs a conceptual framework of community ambivalence, and analyzes the ambivalence
dynamics. Drawing on social identity theory and social influence theory, community
ambivalence formation and transformation processes are discussed. A set of propositions is
developed to guide future research. When community dynamics are properly understood and
directed, government agencies and businesses can better manage destinations and devise
effective strategies to pursue healthy host-guest relationships and facilitate socially sustainable
tourism development.
Keywords: Resident sentiment; Community ambivalence; Ambivalence dynamics; Social
identity theory; Social influence theory
1. Introduction
Although most residents are not directly involved in the tourism industry, as important
members of the host community, residents are considered vital to tourism development (Chen
et al., 2020; Hsu & Chen, 2019; Uchinaka et al., 2019). Therefore, how residents perceive,
evaluate, and attribute interactions with tourists warrants investigation (Hsu & Chen, 2019).
Resident sentiment can serve as an indicator of sustainable tourism development (Cheung &
Li, 2019; Ribeiro et al., 2018) and destination decline (Diedrich & García-Buades, 2009); thus,
it is an issue that has often been examined in tourism research.
The complexity of the mechanism for generating resident sentiment makes it vary
among individuals (Chen et al., 2021; Hao et al., 2020; Kim et al., 2020). In real life, there is
often a diversity of sentiments within the community (Pavlić et al., 2020). Having multiple
sentiments concurrently in a group can lead to extreme behaviors and uncontrollable social
consequences (Rothman et al., 2017). Therefore, relying only on the overall sentiment of
residents (i.e., the average sentiment of the community) while ignoring the diversity of voices
1
within a destination is detrimental to tourism development and an indication of the immaturity
of academic inquiries.
Sentiment represents “an acquired and relatively permanent major neuropsychic
disposition to react emotionally, cognitively, and conatively toward a certain object (or
situation) in a certain stable fashion” (Cattell, 1940, p. 16). Compared to attitude, sentiment is
more encompassing and lasting, thus, it has more ability to predict resident behaviors (Chen et
al., 2021). Hsu et al. (2016) conceptualized resident sentiment as “local residents’ overall
perceptions, views, and emotional dispositions underlying their responses to tourism
development” (p. 1), in which attitude is the transient part. Fu et al. (2019) and Hao et al. (2020)
proposed methods for analyzing residents’ sentiments based on news data, expanding the data
sources of sentiment analysis in tourism research. Chen et al. (2021) further revealed the
constituent dimensions of Hong Kong residents’ sentiments, including cognitive and affective
attitudes toward tourists, identification with tourists, sense of superiority, and feeling of relative
deprivation. Existing research includes mainly empirical studies assessing individual sentiment
or the overall sentiment of residents, with little attention paid to the complexity of sentiment
diversity among residents. Further, empirical studies on resident sentiment are location-specific.
While they contribute to tourism knowledge, conceptualizing the phenomenon and developing
a cross-destination conceptual framework could benefit the academic community by proposing
a tourism-specific theoretical perspective.
Ambivalence, describing a state in which people hold different sentiments or attitudes
at the same time (Li et al., 2024a; van Harreveld et al., 2015), has a strong capacity to portray
the heterogeneity of residents’ sentiments. Group-level ambivalence arises from interaction
and is manifested by the simultaneous presence of opposite or contradictory feelings within a
group (Pradies & Pratt, 2010). In tourism, ambivalence among residents has gradually gained
attention (Chen et al., 2025; Ma et al., 2024). However, most existing studies are location-
specific, focusing on attitude and evaluation, and have yet to conceptualize ambivalence
concerning resident sentiment. Because residents within a community share a solid social
identity and have a strong social influence on each other (Chen et al., 2025), resident sentiment
ambivalence has a complex and dynamic nature, which may lead to unpredictable social
conflicts (Rothman et al., 2017). Considering the importance of resident sentiment, this paper
aims to conceptualize and understand sentiment ambivalence at the destination community
level. The research objectives are as follows.
 Thoroughly review the literature on resident sentiment and resident ambivalence.
2
 Conceptualize community ambivalence and construct a conceptual framework of
community ambivalence formation and transformation.
 Analyze the ambivalence dynamics.
 Suggest propositions for future research.
The formation of social groups hinges on the social identity of individuals, which
defines the self-concept by distinguishing between ingroups and outgroups (Tajfel & Turner,
1979). Social identity theory proposes that social groups provide norms, values, and affective
connections to their members, who locate the group and gain a positive social identity by
conducting beneficial comparisons with the outgroups (Brown, 2000). Thus, residents’
sentiments toward tourists revolve around their social identity. Because sentiments are
individualized psychological states influenced by many factors, including values and beliefs,
ambivalence on a group level is likely to exist (Pradies & Pratt, 2010). Therefore, the social
identity theory’s ability to explain intergroup relations underpins the formation of ambivalence
in a community. In addition, group-level ambivalence could be shaped by interactions (Merton,
1976), with social influence being an important mechanism for its transformation. Given the
frequency of interactions among residents, strong social influence among members makes
sentiments susceptible to change, thus altering the state of ambivalence in the community.
Therefore, the social influence theory, which explains how people adjust their behaviors and
attitudes to adapt to the needs of the social environment (Kelman, 1953), can be used to support
the conceptualization of the transformation of ambivalence.
A new concept, community ambivalence, is proposed in the study. It describes a state
in which members are not ambivalent in their own right, but not all members of the community
share the same sentiment toward tourists, which leads to the existence of different sentiments
within a destination. Intra-individual ambivalence can also be encompassed within this concept
because sentiments expressed typically represent the individual’s overall disposition after
reconciling conflicting sentiments (Chen et al., 2019; Ma et al., 2024). Based on social identity
theory and social influence theory, community ambivalence is conceptualized as two processes:
community ambivalence formation and community ambivalence transformation. This
conceptualization offers a nuanced understanding of resident sentiment activation and change.
Thus, the study refines the group-level ambivalence formation and transformation mechanism
and expands the sentiment and ambivalence research in tourism.
2. Methodology
3
This paper aims to conceptualize community ambivalence and construct its formation and
transformation framework. Qualitative and quantitative methodologies can both contribute to
knowledge, but are rooted in location-based empirical data analysis. Beyond contexts, concepts
describe complex ideas, which are formed through discarding uncommon characteristics in
individual observations and aggregating common characteristics across all observations (Xin
et al., 2013). To achieve our research objectives, conceptual analysis is more suitable than
quantitative or qualitative analysis because it helps answer holistic questions by constructing a
conceptual framework. Although conceptual research received less attention than quantitative
or qualitative research in tourism, Xin et al. (2013) advocated that conceptual research should
have an independent methodology from quantitative and qualitative research. Thus, following
the theory-building approach (Meredith, 1993), this study constructs a conceptual framework
to illustrate the formation and transformation of community ambivalence. A conceptual
framework is “a collection of two or more interrelated propositions which explain an event,
provide understanding, or suggest testable hypotheses” (Meredith, 1993, p. 7).
To establish the conceptual framework, the research flow as shown in Figure 1 is
followed. Guided by the typology of themes in conceptual research (Xin et al., 2013), the
methodology consists of five steps: (1) seeking theoretically and practically valuable topics, (2)
searching for relevant literature, (3) reviewing literature and identifying knowledge gaps, (4)
proposing the new concept, and (5) constructing the conceptual framework. The research flow
encompasses most of the themes identified by Xin et al. (2013) and fits the logic of problem-
solving in research and practice. Therefore, the relevance and rigor of the methodology can be
ensured.
[Insert Figure 1.]
2.1 Seeking theoretically and practically valuable topics
Considering the vital role of residents, their sentiment can serve as an indicator of sustainable
tourism development (Cheung & Li, 2019; Ribeiro et al., 2018), and thus has received
considerable attention in recent years. Sentiment is a form of human subjectivity that can vary
from individual to individual and over time (Munezero et al., 2014). Understanding how
resident sentiment varies across members of the local community is important, as it offers
insights for tourism policies and positioning and can deepen resident sentiment research. This
paper, thus, focuses on the phenomenon of diverse resident sentiment, named as community
ambivalence.
4
To conceptualize community ambivalence, it is necessary to first differentiate between
resident sentiment and other subjectivity terms. Sentiment is a widely researched but
ambiguously defined concept in various disciplines, therefore, the standard dictionary would
be a suitable source to compare the differences among terms commonly used in various studies.
Based on Munezero et al. (2014), Merriam-Webster online dictionary is used as a reference for
selected terms (Table 1).
Table 1 Definitions of subjectivity terms on Merriam-Webster online dictionary (2025)
Subjectivity
Definition Synonym
Term
a set of observable manifestations of an experienced emotion; the conscious Feeling,
Affect
emotion that occurs in reaction to a thought or experience. Emotion
a conscious mental reaction (such as anger or fear) subjectively experienced
as strong feeling usually directed toward a specific object and typically Feeling,
Emotion
accompanied by physiological and behavioral changes in the body; a state Sentiment
of feeling; the affective aspect of consciousness.
Emotion,
Sentiment refined feeling; an idea colored by emotion.
Feeling
a mental position with regard to a fact or state; a feeling or emotion toward Feeling,
Attitude
a fact or state. Emotion
The definitions and synonyms presented in Table 1 show the similarity of these
subjective terms. In everyday use, people do not seem to precisely differentiate them and use
them interchangeably. However, academic research tends to go deeper to identify subtle
differences among these terms (Munezero et al., 2014). In tourism research, attitude and
sentiment are the closest concepts, yet the two are not distinguished conceptually in many
studies (e.g., Hao et al., 2020; Kirilenko & Stepchenkova, 2017). Generally, attitude is
measured to reflect people’s transient and concrete feelings, such as “I would like to…” (Zhang
et al., 2025) and “I believe…” (Fennell & de Grosbois, 2024); sentiment, in turn, is often
categorized as positive, negative, or neutral, and is used to reflect people’s holistic and enduring
subjective feelings (e.g., Chen et al., 2021; Fu et al., 2019). Since Hsu et al. (2016)
conceptualized resident sentiment as an encompassing construct to describe “local residents’
overall perceptions, views, and emotional dispositions underlying their responses to tourism
development” (p. 1), resident attitude is regarded as a transient part of resident sentiment. This
containment relationship can be supported by psychological literature and empirical evidence.
Cattell (1940) defined sentiment as “an acquired and relatively permanent major neuropsychic
disposition” and attitude as “an acquired neuropsychic disposition…as part of the purposive
plan of some larger sentiment or complex” (p. 16). Chen et al. (2021) measured resident
5
sentiment in five components (cognitive and affective attitudes, identification, sense of
superiority, and feeling of relative deprivation) and validated them using survey data from
1,000 Hong Kong residents. Adapted from Munezero et al. (2014), we differentiated these
subjective terms, and the details are illustrated in Figure 2.
[Insert Figure 2.]
As shown in Figure 2, affect is people’s non-conscious response to external stimuli or
physiological signals, and feelings/perceptions and emotions are expressions of affect.
Sustained emotions are then developed into sentiment, which is encompassing and complex,
with attitudes as its transient part. Combined with relevant information, opinions/judgments
are personal interpretations of sentiments. Considering the encompassing and lasting nature of
sentiment, resident sentiment could affect the overall support of the local community for
tourism development (Chen et al., 2018), and is a better indicator of residents’ behavioral
responses than attitude (Chen et al., 2021), thus it is critical for sustainable tourism
development. In the meantime, residents may receive different external stimuli or have
different expressions of affect, which leads to varying resident sentiments within the
community. Understanding different sentiments within the local community has value for
destinations to devise effective policies and strategies to properly manage development and
can advance resident sentiment research.
Some studies have examined the diversity of resident sentiments or attitudes. For
example, Litvin et al. (2020) unveiled the diversity of tourist attitudes toward tourism and
found that the differences depend on where they live; Lundberg (2017) found a significant
difference in resident attitudes between permanent residents and second-home owners and
utilized stakeholder theory to explain the variation. These studies reported mixed views of
residents empirically and found the influencing factors of such divergence, however stopped
short of conceptualizing the phenomenon. Conceptualizing resident sentiment ambivalence
within the community can elevate the interpretation to a theoretical level and in a nuanced way.
As sentiment includes both affective and cognitive attitudes (Chen et al., 2021), community
ambivalence in this paper examines residents’ ambivalence from both affective and cognitive
perspectives.
2.2 Searching for Relevant Literature
The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA)
approach (Page et al., 2021) is the evidence-based minimum set of items for reporting
6
systematic reviews and meta-analyses, presented in a flow diagram. PRISMA offers a
standardized report process, thus improving the research quality and transparency. Since
PRISMA makes the results more reliable and reader-friendly, it was adopted widely in tourism
studies (Geremew et al., 2024; Lin et al., 2024), and guided our search for relevant literature.
After defining the aim of the research, we developed a strategy to search for and select the
literature, as illustrated in Figure 3.
[Insert Figure 3.]
We searched for literature in two categories (i.e., resident sentiment and resident
ambivalence) on Web of Science and Scopus with the search terms {“resident sentiment” OR
“local sentiment” OR “host sentiment”} for the first category and {“resident ambivalence” OR
“local ambivalence” OR “host ambivalence”} for the second category. We retrieved the search
terms for the two categories of literature separately in the title, abstract, and keywords, and
restricted the scope to social sciences, management, and economics. Consequently, 4,049
articles were identified, with 2,002 being duplicates. After filtering out the duplicates, we
further excluded misfit articles, with the exclusion guidelines being: not in a tourism context
(e.g., in linguistics and education) and not focusing on the local community (e.g., about tourist
experience). Finally, 36 articles on resident sentiment and 20 articles on resident ambivalence
were retained, with details shown in the appendix Table A1.
Many studies on resident sentiment did not distinguish between the concepts of
sentiment and attitude, and most resident ambivalence studies retrieved actually investigated
resident attitude. Because attitude is part of the notion of sentiment, research on resident
attitude can contribute to the examination and conceptualization of community ambivalence in
sentiment. Thus, we included all the literature in Table A1 in our review.
3. Literature Review and Theoretical Foundations
3.1 Literature Review
3.1.1 Resident Sentiment
Sentiment as a subject has been studied extensively in different fields. Psychologists originally
characterized sentiment as an enduring, complex, and organized system of dispositions that
produces a certain emotion in a given situation. It is a psychological system that can be
emotionally adapted to the ever-changing circumstances of its object and that corresponds to
the duration of its object (Shand, 1922). Drawing on definitions of sentiment in social
7
psychology, Hsu et al. (2016) conceptualized resident sentiment as an encompassing construct
to describe residents’ overall perceptions/views of and emotional dispositions.
Existing research on resident sentiment consists of two main streams: methodological
studies aiming to measure resident sentiment computationally and empirical studies analyzing
resident sentiment in various contexts. The first stream is rooted in natural language processing
techniques and the widespread use of big data (Alaei et al., 2019). Technically speaking,
resident sentiment analytics is a positive and negative polarity dichotomy problem that relies
on a pre-defined sentiment lexicon or a trained machine learning model (Fu et al., 2019). Gao
et al. (2015) compared the performance of different open-source web services in the analysis
of resident sentiments. Fu et al. (2019) proposed a method to classify resident sentiment from
Chinese travel news texts and bridge the gap of previous research on sentiment analytics in
tourism that did not emphasize predictive accuracy. On this foundation, Hao et al. (2020)
further constructed a methodology for capturing dynamic resident sentiment from travel news
texts.
The second research stream aims to observe resident sentiments in various contexts and
analyze their relationship with other variables of interest. These empirical studies contribute to
the understanding of resident sentiment by adding context-based evidence. For example,
communities around nature-based tourism destinations are widely focused contexts, including
ski areas (Johnson et al., 1994), national parks and protected areas (Perren et al., 2025; Van
Hooreweghe, 2016), islands (Akhmedov et al., 2022; Ribeiro et al., 2018; Shakeela & Weaver,
2012), scuba diving locations (Scholtz & Saayman, 2018), coastal regions (Hanafiah et al.,
2021), valleys (Mohammad Malik et al., 2024), and mountains (Gajdošíková, 2024). Some
other studies focused on urban communities, such as small towns (Paradis, 2000), urban-rural
fringes (Weaver & Lawton, 2001), and destinations developing casino (McCartney & In, 2016),
cruise (McCaughey et al., 2018), sport event (Duignan et al., 2022; Kirilenko & Stepchenkova,
2017; Scholtz, 2019), festival (Skoultsos et al., 2020), religious (P.J et al., 2020; Young et al.,
2021), and heritage (Chauma & Ngwira, 2022; Foroughi et al., 2023) tourism. Resident
sentiment toward tourism was found to be complex and ever-changing in these study contexts,
with residents tending to hold positive sentiments before the expansion of tourism activities,
while their sentiments became complicated as tourism develops (Johnson et al., 1994).
In addition, prior research has shed light on resident sentiment’s relationship with other
variables. For example, Chen et al. (2021) measured Hong Kong resident sentiments in five
components (i.e., cognitive and affective attitudes toward tourists, identification with tourists,
8
sense of superiority, and feeling of relative deprivation), which were shown to influence
residents’ support for tourism development and behavioral responses to tourists. Recently,
overtourism has been recognized as a significant source of negative resident sentiments (Aston
et al., 2023; Cheung & Li, 2019; Kirilenko et al., 2023) because it undermines their perceived
control over tourism activities and tourists (Gössling et al., 2020), and increased community
involvement can reduce such negative sentiments (Arıkan Saltık & Turgut, 2021). Negative
sentiments may also come from crises and media coverage (Godovykh et al., 2021; Li et al.,
2024b; Shakeela & Weaver, 2012). Positive resident sentiment, on the other hand, may come
from the perceived social responsibility of businesses (Gursoy et al., 2019) and expected
tourism sustainability (Ribeiro et al., 2018), in addition to satisfactory host-guest interactions
(Li et al., 2024b). Positive resident sentiments are not only a sign of social sustainability but
also offer tangible economic value as residents’ advocacy behaviors on social media could
attract more tourists (Lever et al., 2021; Uchinaka et al., 2019).
Traditionally, studies on resident sentiment tend to pertain to the population’s overall
sentiment. Given the varied sentiments among members of a community, the overall resident
sentiment lacks the ability to characterize sentimental divergences, thereby failing to meet the
theoretical and practical needs of inquiring and facilitating sustainable host-guest relationships.
Furthermore, most prior studies are location-rooted empirical studies, focusing on popular
destinations such as Hong Kong (Chen et al., 2021; Cheung & Li, 2019; Hao et al., 2020) or
the United States (Kirilenko et al., 2023; Perren et al., 2025). Although empirical research can
contribute to knowledge by providing insights from measurements, constructs, or models in
various contexts, research that can conceptualize observed phenomena and develop theories is
also needed.
3.1.2 Ambivalence among Residents
Discussions about ambivalence started as early as Plato and Aristotle. The concept emphasizes
the simultaneous existence of opposite attitudes or sentiments. Most of the psychology
literature defines ambivalence as “a psychological state in which a person holds mixed feelings
(positive and negative) toward some psychological object” (Gardner, 1987, p. 241). Several
other definitions have been proposed, each with its own focus. For example, “simultaneously
oppositional positive and negative orientations toward an object. Ambivalence includes
cognition (‘I think about X’) and/or emotion (‘I feel about X’)” (Ashforth et al., 2014, p. 1454);
“the simultaneous experience of opposing orientations toward an object or target, where
‘orientation refers to the actor’s alignment or position with regard to the object’” (Rothman et
9
al., 2017, p. 35). Psychological ambivalence is also defined from an attitude perspective as co-
existing of both positive and negative evaluations of a given object (Jost & Burgess, 2000; van
Harreveld et al., 2015).
Sociologists such as Merton (1976) have revealed how organizational structures,
including roles and norms, comprise conflicting values and beliefs (i.e., sociological
ambivalence). Therefore, sociological ambivalence does not refer to a state of psychological or
sentimental ambivalence, but rather to society’s conflicting expectations. With this, the concept
of ambivalence has been extended to the group level, where a group can be conceptualized as
ambivalent when it is composed of actors who (1) are each ambivalent (holographic
ambivalence) or (2) are not ambivalent in their own right, but whose thoughts or sentiments
are in direct opposition to those of other actors, thus the group is defined as ambivalent
(ideological ambivalence) (Pradies & Pratt, 2010). This study focuses on the latter because
people tend to express consistent attitudes or sentiments after they have negotiated their
ambivalent sentiments (Festinger, 1962). For example, Ma et al. (2024) uncovered that
residents’ ambivalence would transform into different attitudes due to their different
information processing strategies; and Chen et al. (2019) found that residents would express
their overall attitudes toward tourism development even though they have ambivalent attitudes.
Therefore, ideological ambivalence can be seen as a state that takes into account intra-
individual ambivalence. In addition, resident sentiment toward tourists at the community level
aggregates the overall sentiments and concerns the complex role of social structures, depicting
how individual sentiments spring to group-level consequences.
Existing tourism research on residents’ ambivalence is mainly empirical, and
qualitative and quantitative methods are used to derive the ambivalent attitudes or evaluations
in particular situations. In the cultural tourism context, residents are observed to be both
dependent on tourism demand and concerned about the destruction of culture and tradition
(Cho, 2020; Deblock, 2013; Ivanova & Buda, 2020; Joseph & Kavoori, 2001; Mbaiwa, 2011).
Concerning festivals and exhibitions, residents have simultaneously positive and negative
attitudes toward the impacts of tourism (Chen et al., 2019; Green, 2002; Melville, 2024), and
ambivalent cognitions about their own identities (Garcia, 2016). Residents living near nature-
based tourism sites perceive opportunities (e.g., economic gains) and threats (e.g., higher rents)
concurrently (Goodson et al., 2024; Nygård & Uthardt, 2011; Tumusiime & Svarstad, 2011).
Rural residents’ attitudes toward the future development of tourism and its impact on the
environment are also ambivalent, and ambivalence changes as tourism develops (Bender &
10
Kerstetter, 2020; Huang et al., 2021; Ma et al., 2024). Furthermore, residents’ ambivalence is
reflected in their attitudes toward specific ethnic groups (Nelson & Matthews, 2018; Woosnam
et al., 2018), such as tourists of a certain nationality, and toward specific identity groups (Brollo
& Celata, 2023; Villa, 2019), such as short-term migrants.
Extant research on residents’ ambivalence focuses primarily on their ambivalent
attitudes toward and support for tourism. Compared to attitude, sentiment is more lasting and
encompassing and thus is a more powerful tool to predict resident behaviors (Chen et al., 2021).
Theoretically, the examination of resident ambivalence of sentiment contributes to an in-depth
understanding of resident sentiment and its role in shaping resident behaviors. Given the
enduring nature of sentiment, public policies tailored to the residents’ sentiment ambivalence
would be more effective by addressing concerns in the community. Furthermore, prior studies
on resident ambivalence are mostly location-specific and observational. Although Chen et al.
(2025) discussed the ambivalence of resident sentiment in a recent study, it was still confined
to the context of border tourism in a Chinese city. Conceptualizing community ambivalence by
integrating resident sentiment and ambivalence is of value because a holistically theorized
framework synthesizing the results of multiple empirical studies is currently lacking.
3.2 Theoretical Foundations of Community Ambivalence
3.2.1 Social Identity Theory
Social identity theory, developed by Tajfel and Turner (1979), explains how individuals derive
part of their self-concept from their group membership, which is one of the most influential
socio-psychological theories explaining intergroup relations (Chen et al., 2018). Tajfel and
Turner (1986) proposed a differentiation between personal and social identities based on the
distinction between interpersonal (where behaviors are largely influenced by individual
variables) and group (where behaviors are largely determined by category-based processes)
settings. Social identity theory focuses on the latter and aims to link social identity with group
membership. The theory suggests that individuals locate the group to which they belong based
on their social identity; and social groups provide the features that define the self-concept of
members by providing normative values and affective connections associated with the
membership (Tajfel & Turner, 1979).
Social identity theory explores the phenomena of “ingroup” and “outgroup”, the
underlying idea being that identities are constituted through a process of difference defined
relatively or flexibly, depending on the activity in which an individual engages (Benwell &
Stokoe, 2006). Individuals will endeavor to attain or maintain a positive social identity (and
11
thus enhance their self-esteem) that derives primarily from beneficial comparisons between the
ingroup and the relevant outgroup (Brown, 2000).
Resident and tourist are two typical social identities at tourist destinations; thus, social
identity theory has been widely utilized in research on residents’ sentiments toward tourists
(Chen et al., 2018, 2021, 2025). In addition, social identity theory contributed to examinations
of residents’ attitudes toward tourism development (Lever et al., 2021; Ye et al., 2014). To
maintain and pursue a favorable social identity, residents would separate themselves from
tourists from the sentimental and behavioral perspectives. Due to the powerful explanatory
capacity of this theory for the relationship between ingroups and outgroups, we draw on it to
theorize the formation of ambivalence in a community.
3.2.2 Social Influence Theory
Social influence theory explains how individuals adjust their behaviors and attitudes to meet
the demands of a social environment (Kelman, 1953). Social influence may occur due to some
explicit requests, but can also result from individuals’ perceptions of what others might do or
think. Kelman (1953) proposed three modes of social influence acceptance, namely,
compliance, identification, and internalization. Compliance refers to a type of response to a
request in which individuals agree with others apparently, but privately retain a different
opinion (Cialdini & Goldstein, 2004). It occurs because individuals hope to achieve a favorable
reaction from other individuals or a group. Identification refers to the circumstance where
individuals are influenced by someone beloved or trusted. It occurs because individuals pursue
to maintain a satisfying self-defining relationship with other individuals or a group.
Internalization refers to the true acceptance of attitudes or behaviors both publicly and privately.
It occurs because the content conveyed by the influence is intrinsically rewarding.
Regardless of the means, social influence can change people’s attitudes and behaviors
to varying degrees because (1) attitude is a societal outcome, which is conditioned by social
customs, values, and norms, as well as a reflection of individual tendencies; (2) social influence
affects different people to different extents; and (3) the degree to which people are receptive to
influence depends on the impact, the characteristics of the influencing source, and the message
being conveyed (Asch, 1961; Festinger, 1954). Meanwhile, studies suggest that social
influence may not only lead individuals to become more similar to each other, but also trigger
rejection of attitude change or even the pursuit of being more different (Hovland et al., 1957).
In reality, social influence is sometimes denied, and individuals may be entrenched in their
views on some issues and compromised on others (Flache et al., 2017).
12
Given that individuals attain self-esteem through social identity, residents are naturally
influenced by other members of the community. With frequent direct and indirect interactions
among residents, social influences are likely to play a role in changing their sentiments toward
tourists. However, social influences may make the ingroup more similar or cause the
emergence of sentiment diversity among ingroup members. Therefore, the social influence
theory can underpin the construction of a mechanism for the transformation of community
ambivalence in situations where multiple influences are considered.
4. A Conceptual Framework of Community Ambivalence
Resident sentiment and ambivalence are both research topics that have received much attention
in tourism and sociology research, but these interconnected concepts have rarely been
integrated. A holistic view of the formation and transformation of community ambivalence of
sentiments toward tourists could facilitate the development of sustainable host-guest
relationships and an understanding of resident sentiment dynamics. This section aims to
establish a conceptual framework of community ambivalence and reveal its formation and
transformation mechanism by leveraging social identity theory and social influence theory.
Members within the community may differ in their sentiments toward tourists, leading to the
formation of community ambivalence. Community ambivalence and community congruence
may interconvert because of resident sentiment changes. Details are shown in Figure 4.
[Insert Figure 4.]
Figure 4 illustrates the conceptual framework of community ambivalence formation
and transformation, the processes of which are based on social identity theory and social
influence theory, respectively. The two theories are closely related. According to Cialdini and
Goldstein (2004), a sense of belonging to a group derives from social identity and contributes
to the likelihood that individuals will be socially influenced. Social identity is a source of
residents’ personal self-esteem, and in order to maintain it, the identity boundaries between
residents and tourists are clearly delineated, thus activating sentiments toward tourists; and
under the influence of diverse factors, community ambivalence is ultimately formed. The
psychological need to pursue social identity makes individuals vulnerable to the social
influence from the majority group in the community, resulting in community ambivalence
transformation. Therefore, social identity promotes social influence, and social influence
enhances social identity, both of which together build the foundation of community
ambivalence.
13
4.1 Community Ambivalence Formation
The conceptual framework uses two steps to explain community ambivalence. The first step is
community ambivalence formation. Social identity theory argues that social groups present
identity features that define the self-concept of group members by providing normative values
and affective connections associated with group membership (Tajfel & Turner, 1979). Based
on the identity, the ingroup and outgroup are formed. People affiliate with different social
groups based on social identities, and residents and tourists are the two most typical social
groups in the tourism context. Influenced by society-level factors, residents’ sentiments toward
tourists are activated. Social identity has been seen as a psychological attachment to a group;
ingroup members may hold negative sentiment of others to maintain self-esteem, or positive
sentiment if they treat themselves as in a more inclusive group with outgroup members (Chen
et al., 2021). Thus, even though social identity activates and shapes the tone of resident
sentiments toward tourists, individual-level factors, including both resident and tourist
characteristics, will lead to different sentiments of each resident toward tourists, thus forming
ambivalence at the community level.
4.1.1 Resident Sentiment Activation
Resident sentiment activation is an act describing how resident sentiment toward tourists is
triggered from an inactive state. In constructing self-identity in the community, residents would
deliberately reinforce their differences with outgroups (i.e., tourists), which would trigger
perceptions and sentiments of the outgroups (Brown, 2000). Simultaneously, as residents
incorporate their self-concept into the ingroup (Hogg et al., 1995), sentiment toward tourists
would be activated. Given that it is a sentiment from one group to another, many society-level
factors can influence the activation of residents’ sentiments toward tourists.
First, social role is a critical factor influencing resident sentiment activation. People
participate in everyday activities based on socially defined roles (e.g., mother, singer, teacher).
Each role is a set of rights, obligations, expectations, norms, and behaviors that a person must
face and fulfill (Biddle, 1986). Therefore, resident sentiment toward tourists is based on social
status and other factors in a given situation, reflecting the social demands of that role.
Sharing common values is another prominent driver of social identity formation;
therefore, common values contribute to forming resident sentiments (Li et al., 2024b).
Concerns about negative impacts on culture (McCaughey et al., 2018; Van Hooreweghe, 2016)
and religion (Young et al., 2021), which are the cornerstone of a society’s common values,
have been found to have an impact on residents’ sentiments toward tourism. In addition, events
14
(Duignan et al., 2022; Kirilenko & Stepchenkova, 2017) and tourism mascots (Xu et al., 2022)
are typically carriers of shared values and are thought to inspire national sentiment, which in
turn influences support for tourism.
Meanwhile, resident sentiment is closely linked to the city’s overall economic and
industrial level (Johnson et al., 1994; Scholtz, 2019), with residents more inclined to have
positive attitudes toward tourism during a financial crisis (Hateftabar & Chapuis, 2020;
Hateftabar & Rasoolimanesh, 2023). However, the relationship between the overall economy
and resident sentiment toward tourism is dynamic and non-linear (Hao et al., 2020). Residents
usually hold positive sentiment toward tourism at the early stage of development, and negative
sentiments emerge as the industry expands (Johnson et al., 1994).
Further, social exchange, one of the main perspectives explaining how residents
perceive and react to tourism (Chen et al., 2020), suggests that individuals are rational and will
initiate exchanges based on a subjective cost-benefit consideration (Emerson, 1976). Residents
will develop a strong attachment when they are fully aware of the economic, social, and cultural
developments brought about by tourism (Mohammad Malik et al., 2024), which may further
influence their sentiments toward tourists (McCaughey et al., 2018). However, when the
perceived cost on the societal level is too high, the overall sentiment of residents toward tourism
deteriorates (Hanafiah et al., 2021; Paradis, 2000). For example, overtourism leads to a
shortage of resources for residents, whose sentiments toward tourists become negative (Cheung
& Li, 2019; Gössling et al., 2020).
Furthermore, residents’ stereotypes of tourists have come under scrutiny in recent years,
and they have been found to influence residents’ sentiments toward tourists (Chen & Hsu, 2021;
Hsu & Chen, 2019). Hsu and Chen (2019) built a conceptual framework of the formation and
development of tourist stereotypes using attribution theory and found that stereotypes are
influenced by personal and contextual factors, and tourist stereotypes could influence residents’
sentiments. Some other studies focused on the relationship between tourist stereotypes and
resident emotions, which also supports the influence of stereotypes on resident sentiment, as
emotion is a direct driver of sentiment (Munezero et al., 2014). For example, Tse and Tung
(2022, 2025) connected the interrelationships among tourist stereotypes, resident emotions, and
resident behaviors.
Besides the above discussed items, more resident sentiment activation factors await
empirical affirmation. For example, physical and mental states are important influences on
people’s sentiment formation, as unhealthy physical conditions and mentalities limit the
15
activation of positive sentiments (Cannon, 1927; Shackman et al., 2009). Thus, Propositions 1-
2 suggest these as triggers of resident sentiment activation.
Proposition 1. Individuals’ physical conditions affect the activation of resident sentiments.
Proposition 2. Individuals’ mental well-being, including factors such as the pace of life in
society and daily stress level, as well as mentalities, affects the activation of resident sentiments.
4.1.2 Resident Sentiment Diversity
Social identity activates and shapes the tone of resident sentiments toward tourists. However,
since residents attach to the community at different levels and many individual-level factors
influence sentiment (Chen et al., 2021), not all residents share the same sentiment (Pavlić et
al., 2020). Although intra-individual ambivalence may also occur, it would be negotiated and
expressed as an overall sentiment (Chen et al., 2019; Ma et al., 2024). Thus, this study considers
individual sentiment as individuals’ overall sentiment after digesting the intra-individual
ambivalence. Differences among the individuals’ overall sentiments are formed by individual-
level factors, including both resident and tourist characteristics.
Residents’ perceived benefits influence their sentiments substantially (Ribeiro et al.,
2018). For example, most residents are positive about tourism because of the benefits to their
community, but younger populations and ethnic minorities may hold different sentiments due
to varying perceptions of the benefits received (Kirilenko et al., 2023; Scholtz, 2019). The
perceived economic, environmental, and socio-cultural benefits of tourism positively affect
residents’ sentiments and supportive behaviors (McCaughey et al., 2018; Mohammad Malik et
al., 2024). However, benefits may be perceived differently by people living in different areas,
e.g., residents affected by congestion will have negative feelings (Weaver & Lawton, 2001).
Resident involvement in tourism is another influencing factor. Gajdošíková (2024)
found a large number of non-involved residents, and lacking community involvement is a
critical source of negative sentiment (Chauma & Ngwira, 2022). Albeit the many reasons for
low involvement, residents’ high willingness to involve in tourism could rectify negative
impacts (Hanafiah et al., 2021). Thus, community-based tourism is seen as an effective means
of avoiding anti-tourist sentiment (Arıkan Saltık & Turgut, 2021). Integration of tourism with
the daily activities of residents can even have positive effects in both economic and sentiment
realms (Gajdošíková, 2024; Johnson et al., 1994). However, the more involved a resident is
does not mean the more positive their sentiments are, as misperceptions and miscommunication
can breed negative sentiments (Scholtz & Saayman, 2018).
16
Belongingness reflects the subjective sense of “being a part of” to avoid alienation (Lee
& Robbins, 1995), therefore is another factor that influences an individual’s sentiment toward
an outgroup. Attachment, a construct of belongingness, is commonly leveraged to reveal
resident sentiment (Paradis, 2000). When residents experience social and environmental
changes from increased density caused by tourists, place attachment contributes to negative
sentiment by influencing residents’ perceptions of lacking control over tourism and tourist
activities (Gössling et al., 2020).
Self-esteem is another important factor that affects sentiment. Specifically, Perren et al.
(2024) identified the direct and positive influence of psychological, social, and economic
empowerment on residents’ support for tourism, and empowerment describes how tourism can
increase residents’ pride and self-esteem and make them feel unique and special. In addition,
Chen et al. (2021) identified that residents’ sense of superiority mentality serves as an
underlying dimension of resident sentiment. Sense of superiority refers to a psychological
feeling or attitude that results from an individual’s self-esteem that they are superior to others
in some way (e.g., ability, status, wealth).
Resident sentiment is largely formed based on their direct and/or indirect interactions
with tourists; therefore, tourist characteristics are also sources of resident sentiment diversity
(Scholtz & Saayman, 2018). While overtourism can trigger negative sentiments among
residents, these negativities do not stem from the presence of tourists (Gössling et al., 2020),
but rather from their violation of social norms (Aston et al., 2023), as residents fear that the
community cannot be burdened with these negative impacts (Paradis, 2000). Thus, the level of
civilization expressed by tourists through behaviors and manners is an important factor
influencing residents’ perceptions of tourists (Chen & Hsu, 2021). In addition, since residents
expect economic gains from tourism, the consumption power of tourists has long been
associated with resident sentiments (Chen & Hsu, 2021; Kim et al., 2020).
Further, compatibility reflects tourists’ similarity with and friendliness toward residents.
Social distance has been used to uncover the role of compatibility (Kim et al., 2020; Zhao &
Xie, 2011), finding that residents have favorable relationships with tourists of the same
nationality because of fewer cross-cultural conflicts (Sinkovics & Penz, 2009). Since people
are prone to see positive outcomes from interaction with others who share similar beliefs,
emotions, and behaviors (Li et al., 2024b), tourist compatibility can influence resident
sentiments toward tourists. Furthermore, tourist responsibility, a set of discretionary decisions
and actions taken by tourists to protect the well-being of a host community (Crilly et al., 2008),
17
is a critical factor leading to resident sentiment diversity. As overt behaviors can be important
cues for people to generate impressions of others (Heider, 1958; Jones & Davis, 1965),
responsible behaviors of tourists would trigger positive sentiments of residents.
In addition to the tourist and resident characteristics summarized above, other factors
may also influence resident sentiment diversity, awaiting testing in future empirical studies.
For example, people’s basic psychological needs include autonomy (i.e., desire to be causal
agents of one’s own life) and competence (i.e., seek to control the outcome and experience
mastery) (Zhang et al., 2019); thus, residents with high autonomy and perceived control would
be more self-motivated to interact with tourists, and being more positive (or negative) in
sentiment. Further, residents having limited contact with tourists are less likely to develop
personally meaningful sentiments because they may rely more on news coverage, which has a
significant effect on resident sentiments and may lead to sentiment convergence (Godovykh et
al., 2021; Hao et al., 2020). Hence, tourism offerings (and types of tourists attracted) that limit
resident-tourist interactions would hinder resident sentiment diversity. For example, cruise
tourism usually limits the interaction of tourists with members of the local community because
the visit duration at ports of call is limited. Thus, Propositions 3- 4 are proposed.
Proposition 3. Residents’ autonomy, competence, and perceived control over tourism
activities affect their sentiment toward tourists and tourism development.
Proposition 4. Tourism offerings and the types of tourists attracted impact resident sentiment
through the nature of resident-tourist interaction.
4.1.3 Community Ambivalence
Following the definition of Pradies and Pratt (2010, p. 1), community ambivalence occurs when
“groups embody opposing or contradictory thoughts and feelings”. That is, community
ambivalence arises from diverse resident sentiments. Pradies and Pratt (2010) argued that
interactions are critical to group-level ambivalence, which can arise from interactions between
individuals or between subgroups within a larger group. Consequently, different levels of
community ambivalence can be formed.
Figure 5 illustrates two scenarios of community ambivalence, Positive Predicament and
Heightened Anxiety. Positive Predicament describes the situation where the community is
ambivalent in sentiments toward tourists, while the overall sentiment is positive. Heightened
Anxiety presents the situation when the community is also ambivalent in sentiments toward
tourists, but the overall sentiment is negative. Although both scenarios indicate community
18
ambivalence, differences in the overall sentiment can lead to very different social climates,
making it necessary to consider both community ambivalence and sentiment simultaneously.
[Insert Figure 5.]
Amsterdam, Netherlands is a good example of Positive Predicament, which
demonstrates the rigor of the proposed concept. It has long been recognized as one of the top
tourist destinations in Europe. Although tourism contributes to the local economy, the limited
space in the city and the increasing tourist volume cause high pressure on the city (Travel and
Tour World, 2025), thus leading to community ambivalence. Consequently, the community of
Amsterdam is in a predicament, as one resident said, “I like it here, but I won’t stay here all
my life, partly due to the tourists. They generally behave well – it’s not that they are rowdies –
but they don’t know the rules of the city” (Gerritsma & Vork, 2017, p. 92).
Overtourism has become a key factor leading to residents’ negative sentiments toward
tourists in many destinations. For example, with only 55,000 residents, Venice, Italy attracted
more than 5 million tourists in 2023 (Statista, 2024a), driving up traffic congestion and housing
rents. The island was not designed to host so many people, thus most residents do not want to
mingle with tourists (Spotted by Locals, 2020). However, the tourist flow benefits some
residents by boosting the development of cultural and artistic events, traditional markets, and
locally designed offerings (Georgiou, 2023). Thus, as tourism creates employment
opportunities and promotes local artisans and designers, those involved in these fields are likely
to have positive sentiments toward tourists. Consequently, the majority of negative sentiments
keep the community in a state of Heightened Anxiety.
Community ambivalence may influence individuals’ cognitions and behaviors, thus
leading to some specific responses of residents toward tourists. Here we discuss several types
of responses with respective conditions for their generation, and these responses may not occur
at the same time. First, individual-level ambivalence has always been associated with amplified
responses toward outgroups. The ambivalent attitudes may raise psychological discomfort, and
more extreme judgment and behavior are needed to reduce this discomfort (Maio et al., 2001;
Rothman et al., 2017). At the community level, although individuals themselves are not
originally ambivalent, discomfort may arise under the social influence when individuals detect
differences between the sentiments of their ingroup members and of their own. This discomfort
comes from the individual’s quest to conform to the community’s position. As a result,
individuals attempt to reduce discomfort through individually amplified responses.
19
In contrast to amplified responses, community ambivalence may also lead to vacillation
(Rothman et al., 2017). The community experiences vacillation due to its inability to develop
unified sentiments or behaviors toward the outgroup. In this case, the community has the
potential to take on either of the two poles of sentiment but is unable to make a unified choice.
On this basis, increased tolerance will occur as a result of long-standing and simultaneous
conflicting sentiments and cognitions (Rothman et al., 2017). Increasing information search
and discussion may contribute to members’ acceptance of the ingroup’s affective and cognitive
complexity (Rothman & Wiesenfeld, 2007).
Concerning the impact of community ambivalence on responses to tourists, more
outcomes need to be empirically validated. The social cost of voicing an opinion online is lower
compared to face-to-face communication, so people are now more accustomed to
communicating on social media (Uchinaka et al., 2019). Similarly, social media has become a
popular platform for interaction between tourists and residents (Lever et al., 2021). When
community ambivalence arises, community members may view expressing their sentiments
toward tourists online as a way to avoid direct intra-community sentiment clashes. Additionally,
lasting community ambivalence can make the community even more polarized. Thus,
Propositions 5-6 are offered.
Proposition 5. Community ambivalence enhances the tendency of residents to express their
sentiments online rather than face-to-face with fellow residents or tourists.
Proposition 6. Prolonged community ambivalence triggers negative sentiments and amplified
responses toward tourists among residents.
4.2 Community Ambivalence Transformation
The process of community ambivalence transformation is proposed based on social influence
theory. Residents’ sentiments may change under the influence of individual- and society-level
factors, thus making community ambivalence transform accordingly. Community ambivalence
may be enhanced or maintained, which means the resident community continues to be in a state
of ambivalence. Community ambivalence may also diminish or even dissolve, thus bringing
the resident community to the state of congruence.
4.2.1 Resident Sentiment Change
Changes in sentiments occur from time to time in response to external stimuli (Hao et al., 2020).
Social influence theory, originally proposed by Kelman (1953), is a framework for explaining
changes in people’s attitudes or behaviors to adapt to the demands of the social environment.
Individuals are socially influenced because they are convinced by compelling arguments
20
(Myers, 1982), want to be similar to others (Akers et al., 1979), are unsure of a decision and
follow the advice of others (Bikhchandani et al., 1992), or perceive social pressure to conform
to social norms (Festinger et al., 1950; Wood, 2000). Thus, residents’ sentiments toward
tourists are influenced by the interaction between the two groups, as well as by the society- and
individual-level factors, as shown in Figure 6.
[Insert Figure 6.]
In addition to updating their disposition from interactions with tourists, resident
characteristics are also important in influencing their sentiment toward tourists. Individual
coherence is a form of attitude and ability that reflects whether an individual is open to
sentiment change. Research has shown that group members who are more confident in their
judgments are more likely to influence others, rather than be influenced by others, regardless
of the accuracy of their actual task (Zarnoth & Sniezek, 1997). Also, such attitudes and abilities
are thought to be determinants of people’s sentiment change by influencing their information
processing (Wood, 2000). When people are both motivated and capable of processing
information independently, attitudes are based on a more thoughtful and systematic assessment
of relevant information; when people are less motivated or less able, attitude judgments are
based on the accessibility of the source, information, or situation and are assessed through
shortcut processing strategies (Hsu & Chen, 2019; Wood, 2000). For example, people may
simply choose to agree with the majority position or the position of someone they know well.
Societal influences also contribute to residents’ sentiment changes. Individuals always
try to become involved and effective group members by understanding the group view,
followed by adopting the ingroup position (Haslam et al., 1996). Residents could be persuaded
by ingroup members’ views because of their need to reinforce their group identity (Wood,
2000). Thus, resident sentiments toward tourists could be influenced by the opinions of other
ingroup members. Baron et al. (1996) reported that highly motivated participants of their study
rely on their own evaluation, except when information is present for too short a period to
determine the correct answer; at that point, they appear to employ a heuristic strategy that relies
on the judgments of others. In contrast, moderately motivated participants use a similar
heuristic strategy; that is, they rely on others’ estimation regardless of whether they can
determine the correct answer themselves (Baron et al., 1996). Thus, highly motivated residents
tend to form their sentiments toward tourists through their intergroup interactions with tourists,
21
whereas other residents are more likely to rely on ingroup assimilation to form their sentiments
toward tourists.
Furthermore, social events and social freedom may influence sentiment change. Due to
the role of media propaganda in orienting residents’ sentiments (Gössling et al., 2020), some
breaking social news may affect residents’ sentiments (Shakeela & Weaver, 2012). For
example, positive COVID-19 cases and news coverage directly affected residents’ sentiments
toward tourism and tourists (Godovykh et al., 2021). Meanwhile, social freedom, defined as
“with respect to a holder of power, a respondent is free to do X or not-X” (Oppenheim, 2004,
p. 176), is a factor that can influence sentiment change. Residents’ sentiments toward tourists
are rooted in the social structure, and in sociology, such sentiments are conceptualized as
macro-social mentalities that pervade the whole society over time (Chen et al., 2021). Thus,
the extent to which the social climate can accommodate changing and different sentiments from
the mainstream affects the likelihood of sentiment change among residents.
Different communities may show different sentiments toward the same tourism activity,
with age, city size, and industrial development all having an impact (Scholtz, 2019). For
instance, the young population groups and racial minorities in Florida hold negative sentiment
toward tourism, while most other people have highly positive sentiment toward tourism
development (Kirilenko et al., 2023). Thus, factors related to the structure of the community
are considered as aspects influencing resident sentiment change, because they may form social
influence within the community. In addition, people who have a high-level community
attachment participate more in local activities, such as shopping or patronizing restaurants
(Paradis, 2000). Since these individuals have more opportunities to engage with tourists, their
sentiment changes may be more frequent. Therefore, Propositions 7-8 are thus offered.
Proposition 7. Changes in community population and structure influence resident sentiment.
Proposition 8. Changes in resident identity influence sentiment. When community attachment
increases, residents’ sentiments toward tourists change.
4.2.2 Community Congruence
In addition to community ambivalence, resident sentiment change may also trigger sentiment
congruence within the community. Community congruence is defined as the state in which the
residents of a community agree with each other and are sentimentally congruent toward tourists.
During interactions among ingroup members, community congruence can be formed through
both internal and external mechanisms. Homology (Bessi et al., 2016), mirroring an
individual’s need for internal cohesion, is the tendency to socialize and engage with others,
22
where the same information is constantly reinforced due to ingroups’ similarities, resulting in
a cocoon of information that makes sentiments similar. Argumentation is a means by which
individuals and groups use reasoning as a tool to achieve their ends (Mercier & Sperber, 2011),
and it assimilates sentiments by influencing people with external forces, such as new
information and activities.
Under both mechanisms of homophily and argumentation, sentiment change in the
community may make resident sentiments toward tourists similar. On the one hand, mutual
information reinforcement and peer pressure make residents prone to develop sentiments
similar to those of the social mainstream; on the other hand, factors such as media propaganda
and public events contribute to bringing residents’ sentiments closer to the mainstream public
opinion of the society. Based on the outcomes of congruence, there would be two kinds of
community congruence, as shown in Figure 7. Both scenarios, approaching consensus on their
sentiments toward tourists, have completely different social impacts because they are at two
extremes of the spectrum.
[Insert Figure 7.]
Resentment describes the overwhelming majority in the community holding negative
sentiments toward tourists, causing the community as a whole to embody an atmosphere of
aversion and rejection of tourists (Doxey, 1975). Barcelona could be an example of a
destination experiencing Resentment, reflected by anti-tourist protests (Guy, 2024). According
to official figures, in 2023, nearly 26 million tourists stayed overnight, but only 7.78 million of
them stayed in legally registered hotels (Statista, 2024b). Thus, although tourists spent $13.8
billion, the tourism revenues have not been distributed rationally. Meanwhile, the influx of
tourists has driven up rents and housing prices in local communities; for example, rents have
risen by 68% and the cost of buying a house has risen by 38% over the past decade (Guy, 2024).
In addition, short-staying tourists, such as cruise passengers, visit only a few businesses or
attractions, thus generating limited revenue for only a small number of entities. Due to the
significant negative impact and lack of common economic gain, negative sentiments dominate
and push such destinations into a state of Resentment. To alleviate the situation, the local
government began to take measures such as charging taxes on overnight tourists and reducing
the number of cruise passengers.
Social Harmony is on the opposite end of the spectrum, reflecting a situation where
most residents (and thus the community as a whole) have positive sentiments toward tourists.
23
Nepal and Bhutan are both famous tourist destinations known for friendly people and beautiful
scenery. Both countries are very open to tourism, and communities generally have positive
sentiments toward foreign tourists. The Nepal government’s efforts to develop ecotourism
(Upadhaya et al., 2022) enhance community participation. The presence of tourists allows for
the sharing of authentic local culture, which increases residents’ pride in their community (Cho,
2020; Uchinaka et al., 2019). In addition, Nepal’s tourism revenue contributes to 7.9% of its
GDP and creates 1.05 million jobs; thus, residents are very friendly to tourists (Upadhaya et
al., 2022). Bhutan reduces the adverse effects of overtourism by targeting and taxing wealthy
tourists (CNN Travel, 2023). Apart from the economic benefits that the community can derive
from tourism, the local Bhutanese also view cultural exchanges as a source of pride, and as
such, the local community is in Social Harmony.
However, community congruence may narrow members’ cognitions and affects, thus
leading to groupthink, where group members prioritize consensus and conformity over critical
thinking and independent judgment (Janis, 1971). In such cases, group members may suppress
their independent thinking or dissenting opinions to maintain group harmony. Off-mainstream
opinions within the community may be present but are often downplayed or ignored to preserve
group cohesion. Thus, groupthink may lead to extreme opinions or even behavior radicalization
among the isolated minority because congruence dampens non-mainstream information, which
leads to a growing information cocoon. Guided by information from a single sentiment
orientation, a few community members’ opinions may become radicalized.
In addition to the above summary, other possible responses are also to be verified by
future empirical research. Because constraints on expressing sentiments online are lower than
those offline (Wu et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024), people tend to exaggerate their sentiments,
which is likely to lead to the emergence of more polarized sentiments. Moving beyond the
framework, residents are important stakeholders in tourism development and can influence the
delivery of services (McCartney & In, 2016), thus, destination competitiveness and economic
structure may be strengthened (weakened) by the positive (negative) community congruence.
Future empirical research could explore Propositions 9-10 in-depth, guided by sociological and
psychological theories, to develop further insights.
Proposition 9. Community congruence causes residents whose views are in the absolute
minority to communicate more intensely online compared to face-to-face.
24
Proposition 10. Community congruence leads to over-dependence on or exclusion from
tourism activities, resulting in a less diversified economic structure. When inertia sets in, the
industry becomes less efficient and may become slow in responding to crises.
Furthermore, research context and methods are also essential for theory building. Cross-
context and multi-method studies lead to generalizable findings and in-depth understandings
of community ambivalence formation. We encourage the use of new and multiple methods to
empirically validate the relationships proposed. Traditional studies mainly used qualitative
and/or questionnaire data to measure resident ambivalence (Chen et al., 2019; Green, 2002;
Melville, 2024), which may be subject to self-report bias. Big data analytics have been
conducted with advanced techniques such as large language models to explore tourist and
resident sentiment (Fu et al., 2019; Yang et al., 2024). With the development of new computing
technologies and the abundance of multimodal data, opportunities abound for more accurate
capturing and investigation of resident ambivalence.
Proposition 11. Conducting cross-context research on resident sentiment leads to more
generalizable findings about community ambivalence.
Proposition 12. Utilizing advanced techniques, such as large language models, and multi-
methods, leads to more accurate and timely capturing and understanding of community
ambivalence.
5. Discussion and Conclusion
5.1 Dynamics of Community Ambivalence and Resident Sentiments
Community ambivalence may change with the addition of new residents, the emigration of
current residents, and sentiment changes among residents, thus making community
ambivalence fluid. Because the overall sentiment of a community toward tourists could move
between the two extremes of positivity and negativity, the two types of community
ambivalence (Figure 5, Positive Predicament and Heightened Anxiety) are in a dynamic state
of flux. Yet, direct changes between the two community congruence states (Figure 7,
Resentment and Social Harmony) are not possible because extreme reversal of the sentiments
of all members cannot be achieved in a short time. Nevertheless, the size of the resident
subgroup with specific sentiments could evolve while the polarity of overall sentiment remains
stable, allowing community ambivalence and community congruence to shift into each other.
The details can be seen in Figure 8, where the horizontal axis represents the overall sentiment,
with negative on the left and positive on the right. The vertical axis represents the degree of
ambivalence, with community ambivalence on the top and community congruence on the
25
bottom. Social Harmony, Positive Predicament, Heightened Anxiety, and Resentment can be
represented by each of the four quadrants.
[Insert Figure 8.]
Social Harmony reflects a healthy relationship between the resident and tourist groups,
which is conducive to sustainable tourism development, and is, therefore, an ideal state sought
by all stakeholders. As in the cases of Nepal and Bhutan, sustainable tourism is developed for
tourists to enjoy cultural and ecological tourism and residents to reap the benefits of pride and
financial gains (CNN Travel, 2023; Upadhaya et al., 2022). In actual practice, however, the
community may develop negative sentiments and may have community ambivalence as
tourism continues to develop. Since government agencies can improve resident sentiment
through proper management (Weaver & Lawton, 2001) and effective communication, the
status of Social Harmony can be achieved by constructively managing the dynamics of
ambivalence. As the curved arrow in Figure 8, when Resentment occurs, destination
management agencies can first try to navigate community ambivalence and change the state to
Heightened Anxiety by turning the sentiments of minority subgroups into positive ones, then
continue to expand the sizes of subgroups holding positive sentiments and gradually change
the state to Positive Predicament, and finally try to reduce community ambivalence to achieve
Social Harmony. For instance, the government agency of Copenhagen, Denmark, encourages
residents and tourists to participate in regenerative actions, such as clean-ups or using
sustainable transportation, which allow them to earn rewards like food, bike rides, and access
to local experiences (VisitCopenhagen, 2025). Equal access to these activities encourages
social interaction between the two groups, and the minority of residents who first come into
contact with tourists will change their sentiments towards them. As the population involved in
regenerative activities increases, their sentiments toward tourists, who temporarily become part
of the community, would continue to change.
5.2 Theoretical Implications
As an original effort to conceptualize community ambivalence, this work has several
theoretical implications. First, this study addresses a shortcoming in current research on
resident sentiment, which either focuses on individual-level sentiment by constructing methods
for calculating residents’ sentiment one by one (Fu et al., 2019; Hao et al., 2020) or observes
the overall resident sentiment in a specific location (Chen et al., 2021; Kirilenko et al., 2023).
However, sentiment ambivalence within any community can lead to complex social
26
consequences. Without recognizing the differences in views and their potential influencing
factors, the effectiveness of resident sentiment analytics would be compromised. This study
conceptualizes community ambivalence, which offers a nuanced understanding of resident
sentiment formation, diversity, and transformation.
Second, by identifying the four ambivalence dynamics, the study deepens the
understanding of group-level ambivalence, particularly in a tourism context. On the one hand,
existing studies on the impact of tourism on local communities summarized the dynamic
evolution of resident sentiment. For example, Doxey (1975) summarized the changes in
resident sentiment in four states (i.e., Euphoria, Apathy, Annoyance, and Antagonistic), and
Butler (1980) proposed the life cycle of the destination and the corresponding changes in
resident sentiment in six states (i.e., Exploration, Involvement, Development, Consolidation,
Stagnation, and Decline or Rejuvenation). Nevertheless, the role of community ambivalence
was not considered. The four proposed ambivalence states integrate the resident sentiment and
ambivalence, revealing the developmental mechanisms of community ambivalence from a
dynamic perspective. On the other hand, most previous research on ambivalence among
residents has been observational for a particular location and has focused on residents’ attitudes
and evaluations (Chen et al., 2019; Ma et al., 2024); ambivalence research on residents’
sentiments is lacking. The conceptual framework and four ambivalence dynamics proposed
enable a detailed investigation of the mechanisms of community ambivalence and provide a
reference for subsequent empirical research. At the same time, the contextualized possible
influencing factors of residents’ ambivalence are clarified, thus setting a foundation for the
future development of ambivalence research in tourism.
Third, the study integrates ambivalence and sentiments to provide a more holistic view
of community dynamics. Because not all residents have the same sentiment as the overall
community-level sentiment, a comprehensive picture of sentiments within a community can be
understood when ambivalence is taken into consideration concurrently. As tourism planning
research gradually moves toward holding a holistic viewpoint that considers the views and
positions of various stakeholders (Agyeiwaah et al., 2016), understanding the perspectives of
host communities enables the achievement of sustainable goals through mutual understanding
and cooperation (Farsari, 2018; Shrestha & L’Espoir Decosta, 2023). Therefore, this study
draws attention to and offers a foundation of community ambivalence for tourism planning and
development research. Further, destination marketing research often aims to improve tourist
experiences (Wu & Yang, 2023). Taking resident sentiment and community ambivalence into
27
consideration would facilitate the cultivation of a hospitable environment where tourists feel
welcomed with enjoyable experiences. The four types of ambivalence dynamics offer different
service landscapes for destination marketing researchers to refine their conceptual
underpinning and study context.
5.3 Practical Implications
This work also has some practical implications for tourism policymakers and destination
management organizations. First, the conceptualization of community ambivalence reveals the
mechanisms inherent in residents’ sentiment inconsistencies, thereby providing tourism
policymakers with a toolbox for systematically improving residents’ sentiments toward tourists
and tourism. For example, in the stage of community ambivalence formation, management
agencies can actively publicize tourists’ positive economic, social, and cultural contributions
to communities and reduce negative stereotypes held by residents, thus stimulating more
positive sentiments. In the stage of community ambivalence transformation, management
agencies can tactically slow down the spread of negative sentiments according to the social
atmosphere. For example, starting from the compliance mode of social influence (Kelman,
1953), by publicizing positive relevant social events or community sentiments, residents could
be nudged to conform and achieve a favorable reaction from other members of the community.
Although these individuals may still hold a different opinion privately, at least the open social
atmosphere is more welcoming for tourists. Trusted public figures and beloved influencers
could be engaged to facilitate the identification mode of social influence acceptance to further
manage community ambivalence. Through time, the agenda of social influence could be
internalized by members of the community.
Second, management agencies can try to cultivate better host-guest relationships based
on the particular community ambivalence and congruence states. When Heightened Anxiety
exists, the majority of residents’ concerns should be addressed through corrective actions or
communication campaigns to avoid negative views from becoming damaging actions that
could result in potential conflicts between residents and tourists. When Positive Predicament
occurs, management agencies and businesses should try to identify the specific causes of the
minority group members’ concerns and properly address those issues through the quality of
product offerings, better organized tourist activities, and/or proper framing of messages to
facilitate residents’ understanding of the importance of tourism to convert the minority of
residents to align with the majority positive views. When Resentment occurs, government
agencies should take immediate action through new policies or amendments to existing policies
28
and regulations to address social tensions. Industry-wide, multi-stakeholder collaborative
actions are required to calm down the community’s emotions. When Social Harmony is
reached, various activities can be organized to attract tourists and facilitate healthy interaction
between residents and tourists to ensure the further sustainable development of tourism.
Third, the dynamic nature of community ambivalence provides destination
management agencies with a dialectical perspective, and in practice, ambivalence needs to be
strategically managed by taking the specific context into account. To realize healthy host-guest
relationships, destination managers would strive for a near consensus of positive resident
sentiments (i.e., Social Harmony). However, community ambivalence is not something that
always needs to be avoided. When Resentment occurs, destination managers can first devise
strategies to transform community views into the category of Heightened Anxiety by
leveraging community ambivalence, that is, persuading a small group of residents to change
their sentiments from negative to positive. Contrarily, when Positive Predicament occurs,
destination managers may try to decrease community ambivalence and change the state to
Social Harmony by convincing a portion of the minority residents who hold negative views to
conform with the majority’s positive sentiments. These could be done through incentives,
communication campaigns, favorable policies, or moral appeals. For instance, the government
agency of Flanders, Belgium, launched a large-scale listening project in 2017 to gather attitudes
from residents and tourists and engage residents in policymaking, which has achieved its goal
of balancing all stakeholders and flourishing the community (Travel to Tomorrow, 2023). In
addition, the sentiments of Hong Kong residents have become more positive after the
government tightened the border crossing policy for tourists and tightened the shopping
restrictions on tourists (Hao et al., 2020). Therefore, leveraging or decreasing community
ambivalence at the right time could help destinations create a healthy tourism social landscape.
5.4 Future Research Agenda
The conceptual framework of community ambivalence presented in Figure 4 illustrates the
current understanding of the phenomenon based on a systematic literature review of relevant
empirical studies, using the social identity and social influence theories as underpinning
support. However, significant knowledge gaps exist. A few sample propositions are proposed
to illustrate potential directions for future research, but they are by no means exhaustive, with
many more possibilities to be derived. For example, additional variables relating to different
stages of the resident community ambivalence formation and transformation are worthy of
investigation. The framework is not meant for empirical testing in one comprehensive study.
29
Instead, it serves as a blueprint of various approaches that community ambivalence studies can
use to enhance our understanding of the sociodynamic nature of the phenomenon. As additional
theoretical development and empirical evidence become available, the framework proposed
could be revised, expanded, and refined to further advance our theoretical understanding of this
important topic.
30
Figure 1 Conceptual Research Flow
Note. Adapted from Xin et al. (2013).
31
Figure 2 Associations of subjectivity terms
Note. Adapted from Munezero et al. (2014).
Figure 3 PRISMA Flow
32
Figure 4 Conceptual Framework of Community Ambivalence
Note. Blue objects indicate stages of the process, where rectangles indicate acts and rounded rectangles indicate states. Yellow boxes indicate influencing factors and green boxes indicate
responses to tourists. Closed-filled arrows indicate influence relationships and open arrows indicate sequences.
33
Figure 5 Community Ambivalence of Resident Sentiments toward Tourists
Note. Each dot represents a resident. Red indicates the resident holds a negative sentiment toward tourists, while
green indicates a positive sentiment toward tourists.
Figure 6 Changes in Residents’ Sentiments toward Tourists
Note. Each dot represents a resident, and each square represents a tourist. Red indicates the resident holds a
negative sentiment toward tourists, while green indicates a positive sentiment toward tourists. Closed-filled arrows
indicate influence relationships and open arrows indicate interpersonal interactions.
1
Figure 7 Community Congruence of Resident Sentiments toward Tourists
Note. Each dot represents a resident. Red indicates the resident holds a negative sentiment toward tourists, while
green indicates a positive sentiment toward tourists.
Figure 8 The Dynamics of Community Ambivalence and Resident Sentiments
Note. The curved arrow indicates the suggested management path to transform Resentment into Social Harmony.
2
References
Agyeiwaah, E., Adongo, R., Dimache, A., & Wondirad, A. (2016). Make a customer, not a
sale: Tourist satisfaction in Hong Kong. Tourism Management, 57, 68–79.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2016.05.014
Akers, R. L., Krohn, M. D., Lanza-Kaduce, L., & Radosevich, M. (1979). Social learning and
deviant behavior: A specific test of a general theory. American Sociological Review,
44(4), 636–655.
Akhmedov, A., Hunter, W. C., & Choi, J. G. (2022). Q method finds anti-refugee sentiments
on Yemeni migration to Jeju. Tourism Geographies, 24(1), 96–116.
https://doi.org/10.1080/14616688.2020.1757746
Alaei, A. R., Becken, S., & Stantic, B. (2019). Sentiment analysis in tourism: Capitalizing on
big data. Journal of Travel Research, 58(2), 175–191.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287517747753
Arıkan Saltık, I., & Turgut, U. (2021). The role of community based tourism in avoiding
overtourism. In A. Hassan & A. Sharma (Eds.), Overtourism, Technology Solutions and
Decimated Destinations (pp. 117–131). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-
2474-2_8
Asch, S. E. (1961). Effects of group pressure upon the modification and distortion of
judgments. In Documents of Gestalt Psychology (pp. 222–236). University of California
Press. https://doi.org/10.1525/9780520313514-017
Ashforth, B. E., Rogers, K. M., Pratt, M. G., & Pradies, C. (2014). Ambivalence in
organizations: A multilevel approach. Organization Science, 25(5), 1453–1478.
https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2014.0909
Aston, S., Beban, A., & Walters, V. (2023). Policing freedom campers: The place, class, and
xenophobic dynamics of overtourism in Aotearoa New Zealand. Tourism Geographies,
25(6), 1534–1554. https://doi.org/10.1080/14616688.2023.2251428
Baron, R. S., Vandello, J. A., & Brunsman, B. (1996). The forgotten variable in conformity
research: Impact of task importance on social influence. Journal of Personality and
Social Psychology, 71(5), 915–927. https://doi.org/10.1037//0022-3514.71.5.915
Bender, A. K., & Kerstetter, D. L. (2020). Residents’ attitudes toward tourism development
in a rural community: A qualitative approach. Journal of Park and Recreation
Administration, 38(4), 90–108. https://doi.org/10.18666/JPRA-2020-10046
Benwell, B., & Stokoe, E. (2006). Discourse and identity. Edinburgh University Press.
1
Bessi, A., Petroni, F., Vicario, M. Del, Zollo, F., Anagnostopoulos, A., Scala, A., Caldarelli,
G., & Quattrociocchi, W. (2016). Homophily and polarization in the age of
misinformation. European Physical Journal: Special Topics, 225(10), 2047–2059.
https://doi.org/10.1140/epjst/e2015-50319-0
Biddle, B. (1986). Recent developments in role theory. Annual Review of Sociology, 12(1),
67–92. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.soc.12.1.67
Bikhchandani, S., Hirshleifer, D., & Welch, I. (1992). A theory of fads, fashion, custom, and
cultural change as informational cascades. Journal of Political Economy, 100(5), 992–
1026. https://doi.org/10.1086/261849
Brollo, B., & Celata, F. (2023). Temporary populations and sociospatial polarisation in the
short-term city. Urban Studies, 60(10), 1815–1832.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00420980221136957
Brown, R. (2000). Social identity theory: Past achievements, current problems and future
challenges. European Journal of Social Psychology, 30(6), 745–778.
https://doi.org/10.1002/1099-0992(200011/12)30:6<745::AID-EJSP24>3.0.CO;2-O
Butler, R. W. (1980). The concept of a tourist area cycle of evolution: Implications for
management of resources. Canadian Geographer, 24, 5–12.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1541-0064.1980.tb00970.x
Cannon, W. B. (1927). The James-Lange theory of emotions : A critical examination and an
alternative theory. The American Journal of Psychology, 39(1), 106–124.
https://doi.org/10.2307/1415404
Cattell, R. B. (1940). Sentiment or attitude? The core of a terminology problem in personality
research. Journal of Personality, 9(1), 6–17. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-
6494.1940.tb02192.x
Chauma, E. C., & Ngwira, C. (2022). Managing a world heritage site in Malawi: Do
residents’ sentiments matter? Journal of Heritage Tourism, 17(2), 142–157.
https://doi.org/10.1080/1743873X.2021.1889571
Chen, N., & Hsu, C. H. C. (2021). Tourist stereotype content: Dimensions and accessibility.
Annals of Tourism Research, 89, 103212. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2021.103212
Chen, N., Hsu, C. H. C., & Li, X. (2021). Resident sentiment toward a dominant tourist
market: Scale development and validation. Journal of Travel Research, 60(7), 1408–
1425. https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287520947799
Chen, N., Hsu, C. H. C., & Li, X. (Robert). (2018). Feeling superior or deprived? Attitudes
2
and underlying mentalities of residents towards Mainland Chinese tourists. Tourism
Management, 66, 94–107. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2017.11.007
Chen, N., Li, F. (Sam), & Ma, J. (2025). Dual identity and ambivalent sentiment of border
residents: Predicting border community support for tourism development. Tourism
Management, 106, 105000. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2024.105000
Chen, Y., Cottam, E., & Lin, Z. (2020). The effect of resident-tourist value co-creation on
residents’ well-being. Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Management, 44, 30–37.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2020.05.009
Chen, Z., Wang, Y., Li, X. (Robert), & Lawton, L. (2019). It’s not just black or white: Effects
of ambivalence on residents’ support for a mega-event. Journal of Hospitality and
Tourism Research, 43(2), 283–313. https://doi.org/10.1177/1096348018804613
Cheung, K. S., & Li, L. H. (2019). Understanding visitor–resident relations in overtourism:
Developing resilience for sustainable tourism. Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 27(8),
1197–1216. https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2019.1606815
Cho, S. (2020). ‘Playing Okinawan’: A Search for authenticity and the power asymmetry in
Japanese appropriation of Okinawan folk music. Journal of Intercultural Studies, 41(3),
280–298. https://doi.org/10.1080/07256868.2020.1751597
Cialdini, R. B., & Goldstein, N. J. (2004). Social influence: Compliance and conformity.
Annual Review of Psychology, 55, 591–621.
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.psych.55.090902.142015
CNN Travel. (2023). Bhutan reducing its daily tourist tax for visitors who stay longer.
Retrieved from https://edition.cnn.com/travel/bhutan-reducing-daily-tourist-tax-intl-
hnk/index.html (Accessed on October 8, 2024)
Crilly, D., Schneider, S. C., & Zollo, M. (2008). Psychological antecedents to socially
responsible behavior. European Management Review, 5(3), 175–190.
https://doi.org/10.1057/emr.2008.15
Deblock, H. (2013). Back to my roots: Artifak and festivals in Vanuatu, Southwest Pacific.
Critical Arts, 27(6), 768–783. https://doi.org/10.1080/02560046.2013.867596
Diedrich, A., & García-Buades, E. (2009). Local perceptions of tourism as indicators of
destination decline. Tourism Management, 30(4), 512–521.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2008.10.009
Doxey, G. V. (1975). A causation theory of visitor-resident irritants: Methodology and
research inferences. The 6th Annual Conference of the Travel Research Association,
3
195–198.
Duignan, M. B., Everett, S., & McCabe, S. (2022). Events as catalysts for communal
resistance to overtourism. Annals of Tourism Research, 96, 103438.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2022.103438
Emerson, M. R. (1976). Social exchange theory. Annual Reviews Sociology, 2, 335–362.
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.so.02.080176.002003
Farsari, I. (2018). A structural approach to social representations of destination collaboration
in Idre, Sweden. Annals of Tourism Research, 71, 1–12.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2018.02.006
Fennell, D. A., & de Grosbois, D. (2024). Development of a scale for assessing animal
welfare literacy in tourism. Journal of Travel Research.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00472875241294044
Festinger, L. (1954). A theory of social comparison processes. Human Relations, 7(2), 117–
140. https://doi.org/10.1177/001872675400700202
Festinger, L. A. (1962). A theory of cognitive dissonance. Stanford University Press.
Festinger, L., Schachter, S., & Back, K. (1950). Social pressures in informal groups. Stanford
University Press.
Flache, A., Mäs, M., Feliciani, T., Chattoe-Brown, E., Deffuant, G., Huet, S., & Lorenz, J.
(2017). Models of social influence: Towards the next frontiers. Journal of Artificial
Societies and Social Simulation, 20(4). https://doi.org/10.18564/jasss.3521
Foroughi, M., de Andrade, B., & Pereira Roders, A. (2023). Capturing public voices: The
role of social media in heritage management. Habitat International, 142, 102934.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.habitatint.2023.102934
Fu, Y., Hao, J. X., Li, X. (Robert), & Hsu, C. H. C. (2019). Predictive accuracy of sentiment
analytics for tourism: A metalearning perspective on Chinese travel news. Journal of
Travel Research, 58(4), 666–679. https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287518772361
Gajdošíková, Z. (2024). Innovating the social pillar for engaging local inhabitants in urban
and mountain destinations. In V. Katsoni & G. Cassar (Eds.), International Conference
of the International Association of Cultural and Digital Tourism (pp. 807–819).
Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-54338-8_47
Gao, S., Hao, J., & Fu, Y. (2015). The application and comparison of web services for
sentiment analysis in tourism. 2015 12th International Conference on Service Systems
and Service Management (ICSSSM), 1–16.
4
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSSSM.2015.7170341
Garcia, L. M. (2016). Techno-tourism and post-industrial neo-romanticism in Berlin’s
electronic dance music scenes. Tourist Studies, 16(3), 276–295.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1468797615618037
Gardner, P. L. (1987). Measuring ambivalence to science. Journal of Research in Science
Teaching, 24(3), 241–247. https://doi.org/10.1002/tea.3660240305
Georgiou, E.-S. (2023). Tourismflows in Venice: A personal perspective. Retrieved from
https://regions.regionalstudies.org/ezine/article/issue-15-tourism-flows-
venice/?doi=13673882.2023.00001010# (Accessed on October 8, 2024)
Geremew, Y. M., Huang, W. J., & Hung, K. (2024). Fuzzy-Set Qualitative Comparative
Analysis as a Mixed-Method and Analysis Technique: A Comprehensive Systematic
Review. Journal of Travel Research, 63(1), 3–26.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00472875231168619
Gerritsma, R., & Vork, J. (2017). Amsterdam residents and their attitude towards tourists and
tourism. Coactivity: Philosophy, Communication, 25(1), 85–98.
https://doi.org/10.3846/cpc.2017.274
Godovykh, M., Ridderstaat, J., Baker, C., & Fyall, A. (2021). COVID-19 and tourism:
Analyzing the effects of COVID-19 statistics and media coverage on attitudes toward
tourism. Forecasting, 3(4), 870–883. https://doi.org/10.3390/forecast3040053
Goodson, D. J., van Riper, C. J., Andrade, R., Stewart, W., Cebrián-Piqueras, M. A., &
Raymond, C. M. (2024). Broad values as the basis for understanding deliberation about
protected area management. Sustainability Science, 19(2), 449–467.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11625-023-01423-z
Gössling, S., McCabe, S., & Chen, N. (Chris). (2020). A socio-psychological
conceptualisation of overtourism. Annals of Tourism Research, 84, 102976.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2020.102976
Green, G. L. (2002). Marketing the nation: Carnival and tourism in Trinidad and Tobago.
Critique of Anthropology, 22(3), 283–304.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0308275X02022003759
Gursoy, D., Boğan, E., Dedeoğlu, B. B., & Çalışkan, C. (2019). Residents’ perceptions of
hotels’ corporate social responsibility initiatives and its impact on residents’ sentiments
to community and support for additional tourism development. Journal of Hospitality
and Tourism Management, 39, 117–128. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2019.03.005
5
Guy, J. (2024). Barcelona anti-tourism protesters fire water pistols at visitors. Retrieved
from https://edition.cnn.com/2024/07/08/travel/barcelona-tourism-protests-scli-
intl/index.html (Accessed on October 8, 2024)
Hanafiah, M. H., Jamaluddin, M. R., & Kunjuraman, V. (2021). Qualitative assessment of
stakeholders and visitors perceptions towards coastal tourism development at Teluk
kemang, port dickson, Malaysia. Journal of Outdoor Recreation and Tourism, 35,
100389. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jort.2021.100389
Hao, J. X., Fu, Y., Hsu, C., Li, X., & Chen, N. (2020). Introducing news media sentiment
analytics to residents’ attitudes research. Journal of Travel Research, 59(8), 1353–1369.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287519884657
Haslam, S. A., McGarty, C., & Turner, J. C. (1996). Salient group memberships and
persuasion: The role of social identity in the validation of beliefs. In J. L. Nye & A. M.
Brower (Eds.), What’s Social About Social Cognition? Research on Socially Shared
Cognition in Small Groups (pp. 29–56). SAGE.
Hateftabar, F., & Chapuis, J. M. (2020). How resident perception of economic crisis
influences their perception of tourism. Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Management,
43, 157–168. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2020.02.009
Hateftabar, F., & Rasoolimanesh, S. M. (2023). Crisis-driven shifts in resident pro-tourism
behaviour. Current Issues in Tourism, 1–24.
https://doi.org/10.1080/13683500.2023.2277905
Heider, F. (1958). The psychology of interpersonal relations. Wiley.
Hogg, M. A., Terry, D. J., & White, K. M. (1995). A tale of two theories : A critical
comparison of identity theory with social identity theory. Social Psychology Quarterly,
58(4), 255–269.
Hovland, C. I., Harvey, O. J., & Sherif, M. (1957). Assimilation and contrast effects in
reactions to communication and attitude change. Journal of Abnormal and Social
Psychology, 55(2), 244–252. https://doi.org/10.1037/h0048480
Hsu, C. H. C., & Chen, N. (2019). Resident attribution and tourist stereotypes. Journal of
Hospitality and Tourism Research, 43(4), 489–516.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1096348018823903
Hsu, C. H. C., Li, X. R., & Chen, N. (2016). Resident sentiment: Preliminary
conceptualization and measurement. 2016 TTRA International Conference.
Huang, X., Lin, S., & Cui, Q. (2021). From “villages of longevity” to “villages of cancer”?
6
The emotional geography of tourism development in Bama, China. Emotion, Space and
Society, 40, 100813. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emospa.2021.100813
Ivanova, M., & Buda, D. M. (2020). Thinking rhizomatically about communist heritage
tourism. Annals of Tourism Research, 84, 103000.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2020.103000
Janis, I. L. (1971). Groupthink. Psychology Today, 5(6), 46–46.
Johnson, J. D., Snepenger, D. J., & Akis, S. (1994). Residents’ perceptions of tourism
development. Annals of Tourism Research, 21(3), 629–642.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0160-7383(94)90124-4
Jones, E. E., & Davis, K. E. (1965). A theory of correspondent inferences: From acts to
dispositions. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, 2, 219-266.
Joseph, C. A., & Kavoori, A. P. (2001). Mediated resistance tourism and the host community.
Annals of Tourism Research, 28(4), 998–1009. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0160-
7383(01)00005-6
Jost, J. T., & Burgess, D. (2000). Attitudinal ambivalence and the conflict between group and
system justification motives in low status groups. Personality and Social Psychology
Bulletin, 26(3), 293–305. https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167200265003
Kelman, H. C. (1953). Attitude change as a function of response restriction. Human
Relations, 6(3), 185–214. https://doi.org/10.1177/001872675300600301
Kim, G., Duffy, L. N., & Moore, D. W. (2020). Tourist attractiveness: Measuring residents’
perception of tourists. Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 28(6), 898–916.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2019.1708919
Kirilenko, A. P., Ma, S., Stepchenkova, S. O., Su, L., & Waddell, T. F. (2023). Detecting
early signs of overtourism: Bringing together indicators of tourism development with
data fusion. Journal of Travel Research, 62(2), 382–398.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00472875211064635
Kirilenko, A. P., & Stepchenkova, S. O. (2017). Sochi 2014 Olympics on Twitter:
Perspectives of hosts and guests. Tourism Management, 63, 54–65.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2017.06.007
Lee, R. M., & Robbins, S. B. (1995). Measuring belongingness: The social connectedness
and the social assurance scales. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 42(2), 232–241.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0167.42.2.232
Lever, M. W., Elliot, S., & Joppe, M. (2021). Exploring destination advocacy behavior in a
7
virtual travel community. Journal of Travel and Tourism Marketing, 38(5), 431–443.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10548408.2021.1940421
Li, H., Liu, H., Shin, H. H., & Ji, H. (2024a). Impacts of user-generated images in online
reviews on customer engagement: A panel data analysis. Tourism Management, 101,
104855. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2023.104855
Li, Y., Zhang, L., Qin, R., & Ryan, C. (2024b). Rally-around-the-destination? Changes in
host-guest emotional solidarity after crises. Tourism Management, 105, 104956.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2024.104956
Lin, G., Lin, M. S., & Song, H. (2024). An Assessment of Prospect Theory in Tourism
Decision-Making Research. Journal of Travel Research, 63(2), 275–297.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00472875231171673
Litvin, S. W., Smith, W. W., & McEwen, W. R. (2020). Not in my backyard: Personal
politics and resident attitudes toward tourism. Journal of Travel Research, 59(4), 674–
685. https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287519853039
Lundberg, E. (2017). The importance of tourism impacts for different local resident groups:
A case study of a Swedish seaside destination. Journal of Destination Marketing and
Management, 6(1), 46–55. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdmm.2016.02.002
Ma, X., Zhang, L., Su, W., & Wang, H. (2024). Residents’ attitudes toward land lease for
rural tourism. Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 32(11), 2361–2379.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2024.2340539
Maio, G. R., Greenland, K., Bernard, M., & Esses, V. M. (2001). Effects of intergroup
ambivalence on information processing: The role of physiological arousal. Group
Processes & Intergroup Relations, 4(4), 355–372.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1368430201004004005
Mbaiwa, J. E. (2011). Cultural commodification and tourism: The Goo-moremi community,
Central Botswana. Tijdschrift Voor Economische En Sociale Geografie, 102(3), 290–
301. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9663.2011.00664.x
McCartney, G., & In, W. L. W. (2016). House of Cards - An analysis of Macao’s resident
support for tourism and casino development. Tourism and Hospitality Research, 16(2),
144–157. https://doi.org/10.1177/1467358415600215
McCaughey, R., Mao, I., & Dowling, R. (2018). Residents’ perceptions towards cruise
tourism development: the case of Esperance, Western Australia. Tourism Recreation
Research, 43(3), 403–408. https://doi.org/10.1080/02508281.2018.1464098
8
Melville, E. (2024). “We’re no longer the senzala”: Race, space, and difference in the Ethnic
Capital of Brazil. Tourist Studies. https://doi.org/10.1177/14687976241274817
Mercier, H., & Sperber, D. (2011). Why do humans reason? Arguments for an argumentative
theory. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 34, 57–111.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0140525X10000968
Meredith, J. (1993). Theory building through conceptual methods. International Journal of
Operations & Production Management, 13(5), 3–11.
https://doi.org/10.1108/01443579310028120
Merriam-Webster online dictionary. (2025). Merriam-Webster online dictionary. Retrieved
from https://www.merriam-webster.com/ (Accessed on April 16, 2025)
Merton, R. K. (1976). Sociological ambivalence and other essays. Free Press.
Mohammad Malik, Y., Walia, S., Erkol Bayram, G., Valeri, M., & Basheer, S. (2024).
Community attachment, tourist contact, and resident attitudes toward tourism
development of Kashmir Valley. Tourism, 72(3), 410–421.
https://doi.org/10.37741/t.72.3.9
Munezero, M., Montero, C. S., Sutinen, E., & Pajunen, J. (2014). Are they different? Affect,
feeling, emotion, sentiment, and opinion detection in text. IEEE Transactions on
Affective Computing, 5(2), 101–111. https://doi.org/10.1109/TAFFC.2014.2317187
Myers, D. G. (1982). Polarizing effects of social interaction. In Group decision making (pp.
125–161). Academic Press.
Nelson, K., & Matthews, A. L. (2018). Foreign presents or foreign presence? Resident
perceptions of Australian and Chinese tourists in Niseko, Japan. Tourist Studies, 18(2),
213–231. https://doi.org/10.1177/1468797617717466
Nygård, M., & Uthardt, L. (2011). Opportunity or threat? Finnish hunters’ attitudes to
hunting tourism. Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 19(3), 383–401.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2010.524701
Oppenheim, F. E. (2004). Social freedom: Definition, measurability, valuation. Social Choice
and Welfare, 22(1), 175–185. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00355-003-0281-3
P.J, S., Bhat, I. A., Myers, K., & Tanwar, N. (2020). Local stakeholders’ perspectives on
religious heritage and tourism development in Varanasi. International Journal of
Tourism Cities, 6(3), 529–544. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJTC-10-2019-0194
Page, M. J., McKenzie, J. E., Bossuyt, P., Boutron, I., Hoffmann, T. C., Mulrow, C. D.,
Shamseer, L., Tetzlaff, J. M., Akl, E., Brennan, S. E., Chou, R., Glanville, J., Grimshaw,
9
J. M., Hróbjartsson, A., Lalu, M. M., Li, T., Loder, E. W., Mayo-Wilson, E., McDonald,
S., … Moher, D. (2021). The prisma 2020 statement: An updated guideline for reporting
systematic reviews. British Medical Journal, 372, n71. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13643-
021-01626-4
Paradis, T. W. (2000). Main street transformed: Community sense of place for
nonmetropolitan tourism business districts. Urban Geography, 21(7), 609–639.
https://doi.org/10.2747/0272-3638.21.7.609
Pavlić, I., Portolan, A., & Puh, B. (2020). Segmenting local residents by perceptions of
tourism impacts in an urban World Heritage Site: the case of Dubrovnik. Journal of
Heritage Tourism, 15(4), 398–409. https://doi.org/10.1080/1743873X.2019.1656218
Perren, C., Boley, B. B., White, E. M., Green, G. T., & Woosnam, K. M. (2025). Protected
area influence over resident attitudes towards tourism in gateway communities. Journal
of Sustainable Tourism, 33(3), 436–456.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2024.2349904
Pradies, C., & Pratt, M. G. (2010). Ex uno plures: Toward a conceptualization of group
ambivalence. Academy of Management Proceedings, 1, 1–6.
https://doi.org/10.5465/ambpp.2010.54493648
Ribeiro, M. A., Pinto, P., Silva, J. A., & Woosnam, K. M. (2018). Examining the predictive
validity of SUS-TAS with maximum parsimony in developing island countries. Journal
of Sustainable Tourism, 26(3), 379–398.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2017.1355918
Rothman, N. B., Pratt, M. G., Rees, L., & Vogus, T. J. (2017). Understanding the dual nature
of ambivalence: Why and when ambivalence leads to good and bad outcomes. Academy
of Management Annals, 11(1), 33–72. https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2014.0066
Rothman, N. B., & Wiesenfeld, B. M. (2007). The social consequences of expressing
emotional ambivalence in groups and teams. In Affect and groups (pp. 275–308).
Emerald Group Publishing Limited. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1534-0856(2007)10
Scholtz, M. (2019). One ultramarathon, two cities: Differences in social impact perceptions.
Journal of Sport and Tourism, 23(4), 181–202.
https://doi.org/10.1080/14775085.2019.1654905
Scholtz, M., & Saayman, M. (2018). Diving into the consequences of stakeholders unheard.
European Journal of Tourism Research, 20, 105–124.
https://doi.org/10.54055/ejtr.v20i.343
10
Shackman, A. J., McMenamin, B. W., Maxwell, J. S., Greischar, L. L., & Davidson, R. J.
(2009). Right dorsolateral prefrontal cortical activity and behavioral inhibition.
Psychological Science, 20(12), 1500–1506. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-
9280.2009.02476.x
Shakeela, A., & Weaver, D. (2012). Resident reactions to a tourism incident: Mapping a
Maldivian emoscape. Annals of Tourism Research, 39(3), 1337–1358.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2012.01.007
Shand, A. F. (1922). The relations of complex and sentiment. III. British Journal of
Psychology. General Section, 13(2), 123–129. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2044-
8295.1922.tb00088.x
Shrestha, R. K., & L’Espoir Decosta, P. (2023). Developing dynamic capabilities for
community collaboration and tourism product innovation in response to crisis: Nepal
and COVID-19. Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 31(1), 168–186.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2021.2023164
Sinkovics, R. R., & Penz, E. (2009). Social distance between residents and international
tourists - Implications for international business. International Business Review, 18(5),
457–469. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibusrev.2009.06.002
Skoultsos, S., Georgoula, V., & Temponera, E. (2020). Exploring “sense of community” in
the festival tourism experience: Review of the relative literature. In V. Katsoni & T.
Spyriadis (Eds.), Cultural and Tourism Innovation in the Digital Era: Sixth
International IACuDiT Conference (pp. 67–77). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-36342-0_5
Spotted by Locals. (2020). Overtourism in Venice: A local perspective. Retrieved from
https://www.spottedbylocals.com/blog/overtourism-in-venice-a-local-perspective/
(Accessed on October 8, 2024)
Statista. (2024a). Number of tourist arrivals in Venice, Italy from 2003 to 2023. Retrieved
from https://www.statista.com/statistics/732406/overnight-tourist-arrivals-in-venice-
italy/ (Accessed on October 8, 2024)
Statista. (2024b). Number of tourists in hotels in Barcelona, Spain from 1990 to 2023.
Retrieved from https://www.statista.com/statistics/452060/number-of-tourists-in-
barcelona-spain/ (Accessed on October 8, 2024)
Tajfel, H., & Turner, J. C. (1979). An integrative theory of intergroup conflict. In W. Austin
& S. Worchel (Eds.), The social psychology of intergroup relations (pp. 33–47).
11
Brooks/Cole.
Tajfel, H., & Turner, J. C. (1986). The social identity theory of intergroup behavior. In S.
Worchel & W. Austin (Eds.), Psychology of Intergroup Relations (pp. 7–24). Nelson
Hall.
Travel and Tour World. (2025). Amsterdam residents revolt as overtourism sparks protests
and drastic travel restrictions to save the city, here is what you need to know. Retrieved
from https://www.travelandtourworld.com/news/article/amsterdam-residents-revolt-as-
overtourism-sparks-protests-and-drastic-travel-restrictions-to-save-the-city-here-is-what-
you-need-to-know/ (Accessed on April 26, 2025)
Travel to Tomorrow. (2023). Travel to Tomorrow: Our journey. Retrieved from
https://www.traveltotomorrow.be/about/travel-tomorrow-our-journey (Accessed on May
28, 2025)
Tse, S., & Tung, V. W. S. (2022). Understanding residents’ attitudes towards tourists:
Connecting stereotypes, emotions and behaviours. Tourism Management, 89, 104435.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2021.104435
Tse, S. W. T., & Tung, V. W. S. (2025). Understanding residents’ attitudes towards tourists
through implicit stereotypes. Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Research, 49(1), 99–116.
https://doi.org/10.1177/10963480231175516
Tumusiime, D. M., & Svarstad, H. (2011). A local counter-narrative on the conservation of
mountain gorillas. Forum for Development Studies, 38(3), 239–265.
https://doi.org/10.1080/08039410.2011.610000
Uchinaka, S., Yoganathan, V., & Osburg, V. S. (2019). Classifying residents’ roles as online
place-ambassadors. Tourism Management, 71, 137–150.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2018.10.008
Upadhaya, S., Tiwari, S., Poudyal, B., Chhetri, S. G., & Dhungana, N. (2022). Local people’s
perception of the impacts and importance of ecotourism in Central Nepal. PLoS ONE,
17(5), 1–15. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0268637
van Harreveld, F., Nohlen, H. U., & Schneider, I. K. (2015). The ABC of ambivalence:
affective, behavioral, and cognitive consequences of attitudinal conflict. In Advances in
Experimental Social Psychology (1st ed., Vol. 52, pp. 285–324). Elsevier Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.aesp.2015.01.002
Van Hooreweghe, K. (2016). Place and exclusion in New York City’s Jamaica Bay. Journal
of Environmental Studies and Sciences, 6(4), 753–758. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13412-
12
015-0256-6
Villa, M. (2019). Local ambivalence to diverse mobilities – The case of a Norwegian rural
village. Sociologia Ruralis, 59(4), 701–717. https://doi.org/10.1111/soru.12263
VisitCopenhagen. (2025). CopenPay. Retrieved from
https://www.visitcopenhagen.com/copenpay (Accessed on May 28, 2025)
Weaver, D. B., & Lawton, L. J. (2001). Resident perceptions in the urban-rural fringe. Annals
of Tourism Research, 28(2), 439–458. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0160-7383(00)00052-9
Wood, W. (2000). Attitude change: Persuasion and social influence. Annual Review of
Psychology, 51, 539–570. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.psych.51.1.539
Woosnam, K. M., Maruyama, N., Boley, B. B., & Erul, E. (2018). Stereotypes and perceived
solidarity in ethnic enclave tourism. Journal of Tourism and Cultural Change, 16(2),
138–154. https://doi.org/10.1080/14766825.2016.1242596
Wu, J., Chen, J., Yang, T., & Zhao, N. (2024). How to stay competitive: An innovative
concept to assess the business competitiveness using online restaurant reviews.
International Journal of Hospitality Management, 122, 103836.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2024.103836
Wu, J., & Yang, T. (2023). Service attributes for sustainable rural tourism from online
comments : Tourist satisfaction perspective. Journal of Destination Marketing &
Management, 30(2), 100822. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdmm.2023.100822
Xin, S., Tribe, J., & Chambers, D. (2013). Conceptual research in tourism. Annals of Tourism
Research, 41, 66–88. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2012.12.003
Xu, J. (Bill), Yan, L., & Pratt, S. (2022). Destination image recovery with tourism mascots.
Journal of Destination Marketing and Management, 25, 100732.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdmm.2022.100732
Yang, T., Wu, J., & Zhang, J. (2024). Knowing how satisfied/dissatisfied is far from enough:
a comprehensive customer satisfaction analysis framework based on hybrid text mining
techniques. International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, 36(3),
873–892. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJCHM-10-2022-1319
Ye, B. H., Zhang, H. Q., Huawen Shen, J., & Goh, C. (2014). Does social identity affect
residents’ attitude toward tourism development?: An evidence from the relaxation of the
individual visit scheme. International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality
Management, 26(6), 907–929. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJCHM-01-2013-0041
Young, T., Reindrawati, D. Y., Lyons, K., & Johnson, P. (2021). Host gazes from an Islamic
13
island: challenging homogeneous resident perception orthodoxies. Tourism
Geographies, 23(3), 599–622. https://doi.org/10.1080/14616688.2020.1733067
Zarnoth, P., & Sniezek, J. A. (1997). The social influence of confidence in group decision
making. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 33(4), 345–366.
https://doi.org/10.1006/jesp.1997.1326
Zhang, T., Li, B., & Hua, N. (2025). Live-streaming tourism: Model development and
validations. Journal of Travel Research, 64(3), 559–575.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00472875231223133
Zhang, Y., Cole, S., Ricci, P., & Gao, J. (2019). Context-based leisure travel facilitation
among people with mobility challenges: A self-determination theory approach. Journal
of Travel Research, 58(1), 42–62. https://doi.org/10.1177/0047287517741004
Zhao, M., & Xie, J. (2011). Effects of social and temporal distance on consumers’ responses
to peer recommendations. Journal of Marketing Research, 48(3), 486–496.
https://doi.org/10.1509/jmkr.48.3.486
14
Appendix
Table A1 Background of the reviewed articles
Publication
Article Title Publication Title
Year
Topic: Resident sentiment
Residents’ perceptions of tourism development Annals of Tourism Research 1994
Main street transformed: Community sense of place for
Urban Geography 2000
nonmetropolitan tourism business districts
Resident perceptions in the urban-rural fringe Annals of Tourism Research 2001
Resident reactions to a tourism incident: Mapping a Maldivian
Annals of Tourism Research 2012
emoscape
2015 12th International
The application and comparison of web services for sentiment Conference on Service
2015
analysis in tourism Systems and Service
Management (ICSSSM)
House of Cards—An analysis of Macao’s resident support for Tourism and Hospitality
2016
tourism and casino development Research
Journal of Environmental
Place and exclusion in New York City’s Jamaica Bay 2016
Studies and Sciences
Sochi 2014 Olympics on Twitter: Perspectives of hosts and
Tourism Management 2017
guests
Examining the predictive validity of SUS-TAS with maximum Journal of Sustainable
2018
parsimony in developing island countries Tourism
European Journal of
Diving into the consequences of stakeholders unheard 2018
Tourism Research
Residents’ perceptions towards cruise tourism development: the Tourism Recreation
2018
case of Esperance, Western Australia Research
Residents’ perceptions of hotels’ corporate social responsibility
Journal of Hospitality and
initiatives and its impact on residents’ sentiments to community 2019
Tourism Management
and support for additional tourism development
Classifying residents’ roles as online place-ambassadors Tourism Management 2019
Understanding visitor–resident relations in overtourism: Journal of Sustainable
2019
developing resilience for sustainable tourism Tourism
One ultramarathon, two cities: Differences in social impact
Journal of Sport & Tourism 2019
perceptions
Introducing news media sentiment analytics to residents’
Journal of Travel Research 2020
attitudes research
A socio-psychological conceptualisation of overtourism Annals of Tourism Research 2020
Local stakeholders’ perspectives on religious heritage and International Journal of
2020
tourism development in Varanasi Tourism Cities
Cultural and Tourism
Exploring “sense of community” in the festival tourism Innovation in the Digital
2020
experience: Review of the relative literature Era: Sixth International
IACuDiT Conference
Resident sentiment toward a dominant tourist market: Scale
Journal of Travel Research 2021
development and validation
15
Exploring destination advocacy behavior in a virtual travel Journal of Travel & Tourism
2021
community Marketing
Overtourism, Technology
The role of community based tourism in avoiding overtourism Solutions and Decimated 2021
Destinations
Host gazes from an Islamic island: Challenging homogeneous
Tourism Geographies 2021
resident perception orthodoxies
Qualitative assessment of stakeholders and visitors perceptions
Journal of Outdoor
towards coastal tourism development at Teluk kemang, port 2021
Recreation and Tourism
dickson, Malaysia
COVID-19 and tourism: Analyzing the effects of COVID-19
Forecasting 2021
statistics and media coverage on attitudes toward tourism
Events as catalysts for communal resistance to overtourism Annals of Tourism Research 2022
Journal of Destination
Destination image recovery with tourism mascots 2022
Marketing & Management
Managing a World Heritage Site in Malawi: do residents’
Journal of Heritage Tourism 2022
sentiments matter?
Q method finds anti-refugee sentiments on Yemeni migration to
Tourism Geographies 2022
Jeju
Detecting early signs of overtourism: Bringing together
Journal of Travel Research 2023
indicators of tourism development with data fusion
Policing freedom campers: The place, class, and xenophobic
Tourism Geographies 2023
dynamics of overtourism in Aotearoa New Zealand
Capturing public voices: The role of social media in heritage
Habitat International 2023
management
Rally-around-the-destination? Changes in host-guest emotional
Tourism Management 2024
solidarity after crises
Protected area influence over resident attitudes towards tourism Journal of Sustainable
2024
in gateway communities Tourism
Community attachment, tourist contact, and resident attitudes
Tourism 2024
toward tourism development of Kashmir Valley
International Conference of
Innovating the social pillar for engaging local inhabitants in the International Association
2024
urban and mountain destinations of Cultural and Digital
Tourism
Topic: Resident ambivalence
Mediated resistance tourism and the host community Annals of Tourism Research 2001
Marketing the nation: Carnival and tourism in Trinidad and
Critique of Anthropology 2002
Tobago
Opportunity or threat? Finnish hunters’ attitudes to hunting Journal of Sustainable
2011
tourism Tourism
Tijdschrift voor
Cultural commodification and tourism: The Goo-moremi
Economische en Sociale 2011
community, Central Botswana
Geografie
A local counter-narrative on the conservation of Mountain Forum for Development
2011
Gorillas Studies
16
Back to my roots: Artifak and festivals in Vanuatu, Southwest
Critical Arts 2013
Pacific
Techno-tourism and post-industrial neo-romanticism in Berlin’s
Tourist Studies 2016
electronic dance music scenes
Foreign presents or foreign presence? Resident perceptions of
Tourist Studies 2018
Australian and Chinese tourists in Niseko, Japan
Journal of Tourism and
Stereotypes and perceived solidarity in ethnic enclave tourism 2018
Cultural Change
It’s not just black or white: Effects of ambivalence on residents’ Journal of Hospitality and
2019
support for a mega-event Tourism Research
Local ambivalence to diverse mobilities – The case of a
Sociologia Ruralis 2019
Norwegian rural village
Thinking rhizomatically about communist heritage tourism Annals of Tourism Research 2020
Residents’ attitudes toward tourism development in a rural Journal of Park and
2020
community: A qualitative approach Recreation Administration
‘Playing Okinawan’: A search for authenticity and the power Journal of Intercultural
2020
asymmetry in Japanese appropriation of Okinawan folk music Studies
From “villages of longevity” to “villages of cancer”? The
Emotion, Space and Society 2021
emotional geography of tourism development in Bama, China
Temporary populations and sociospatial polarisation in the short-
Urban Studies 2023
term city
Journal of Sustainable
Residents’ attitudes toward land lease for rural tourism 2024
Tourism
“We’re no longer the senzala”: Race, space, and difference in the
Tourist Studies 2024
Ethnic Capital of Brazil
Broad values as the basis for understanding deliberation about
Sustainability Science 2024
protected area management
Dual identity and ambivalent sentiment of border residents:
Tourism Management 2025
Predicting border
17